Praise for Linda Aronson’s Scriptwriting Updated (published in the US as
Screenwriting Updated)
‘A lucid and eminently useful atlas of screenwriting technique. All the vague
confusing things that teachers and studio executives say about flashback,
turning points and multiple protagonists are whipped into coherent shape
here, in a comprehensive, precise and extremely practical theory. An essen-
tial tool in any writer’s kit.’
Christopher Vogler, author of The Writer’s Journey
‘A very clear and intelligent analysis of what’s going on in film structure and
the advances of the last ten years. Terrific handling of Pulp Fiction and flash-
back. A genuine advance in the theoretical knowledge of film structure and
a very clear coverage of the basics. A big advance on the standard texts. They
say you can’t teach an old dog new tricks, but I learnt a thing or two.’
David Williamson, playwright and film writer
‘A unique and in-depth screenwriting book that is a MUST for the modern
screenwriter. It sits on my desk.’
Screenwriters Utopia, US
‘I really love this book. Her analysis of eight major features, followed by com-
mentary of common script problems is worth the price of admission or cover
price of this book alone. But the entire 300 pages maintains this level of qual-
ity and depth of analysis. Very strongly recommended.’
Script Magazine, US
‘Linda Aronson provides screenwriters with invaluable detailed strategies to
lay bare the workings of the craft. She has constructed a remarkable guide
to take you from that mind-numbing first blank page, over all the hurdles,
through to polishing the final draft.’
Jane Scott, Producer (Mao’s Last Dancer, Shine, Crocodile Dundee I and II,
Goodbye Paradise)
‘An illuminating introduction into new forms of film writing that challenges
us to keep up with the innovators.’
Jamie Sherry, The Screenwriters’ Guru Guide, Writers’ Guild of Great Britain
‘There’s only one book worth reading on screenwriting structure, by the way:
Screenwriting Updated by Linda Aronson. She’s published one of the only two
credible explications of Pulp Fiction.’
Joe Clark
‘Tired of the Syd Field and Robert McKee dyad? Screenwriter Linda Aronson
has a new nuts-and-bolts book that could leave the other gurus searching for
day jobs.’
Erick Opeka Austin Film Resource, Texas
‘[Screenwriting Updated] . . . was intended as a guide to writing for TV and
film, ⊮’s very applicable to the games industry. The focus is on the struc-
ture of a story and gives practical strategies for creating or improving your
narratives.’
Game On, US
Linda Aronson
First published in 2010
Copyright © Linda Aronson 2010
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in
any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying,
recording or by any information storage and retrieval system, without prior
permission in writing from the publisher. The Australian Copyright Act 1968
(the Act) allows a maximum of one chapter or 10 per cent of this book, whichever
is the greater, to be photocopied by any educational institution for its educational
purposes provided that the educational institution (or body that administers it) has
given a remuneration notice to Copyright Agency Limited (CAL) under the Act.
Allen & Unwin
83 Alexander Street
Crows Nest NSW 2065
Australia
Phone: (61 2) 8425 0100
Fax: (61 2) 9906 2218
Email: info@allenandunwin.com
Web: www.allenandunwin.com
Cataloguing-in-Publication details are available
from the National Library of Australia
www.librariesaustralia.nla.gov.au
ISBN 978 1 74237 136 8
Internal design by fisheye design
Set in 11/14.5 pt Minion by Post Pre-press Group, Australia
Printed in China at Everbest Printing Co
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Contents
List of figures viii
List of ⊧ strategies x
Foreword xii
Preface xv
Part 1 Getting Ideas
1
Chapter 1 Creativity and general problem solving 3
Chapter 2 Triggering good ideas fast from screen models 15
Chapter 3 Triggering good ideas fast from other models 26
Chapter 4 What film are we in? 31
Part 2 Conventional ⊚ Structure
43
Chapter 5 Overview of conventional ⊚ structure 45
Chapter 6 Planning a conventional, three-act structure 61
Chapter 7 Normality and disturbance (the set-up) 68
Chapter 8 Action line or relationship line? 72
Chapter 9 Protagonists and characters who seem
like protagonists but are not 78
Chapter 10 One ⊛, many antagonists 86
Chapter 11 Characterisation 91
Chapter 12 The plan and first-act turning point 99
Chapter 13 The ⊪ 104
Chapter 14 The third act: ⊝, ⊡, symbolism
and myth 113
Chapter 15 Structural analysis of The Piano 120
Part 3 Practical Plotting
127
Chapter 16 The nature of the task 129
Chapter 17 Close plotting: Beats, interweaving and condensing 133
Chapter 18 Plotting: Tips, traps and rewriting 144
Chapter 19 Genres with particular plotting problems 155
v
vi The 21st-Century Screenplay
Part 4 Parallel ⊚
165
Chapter 20 An introduction to parallel ⊚ 167
Chapter 21 Six categories of parallel ⊚ 171
Chapter 22 Which structure suits my film? 177
Section 1 Tandem ⊚ 182
Chapter 23 Tandem ⊚: An introduction 182
Chapter 24 The macro in tandem ⊚ 188
Chapter 25 Writing your tandem ⊚ film 194
Chapter 26 City of Hope: Tandem ⊚ case study 203
Section 2 Multiple ⊛ ⊚ 207
Chapter 27 Multiple ⊛ ⊚: An introduction 207
Chapter 28 Multiple protagonists: Preliminary plotting 218
Chapter 29 Multiple protagonists: Plotting the group action line 222
Chapter 30 Multiple protagonists: Plotting relationship lines 228
Chapter 31 Plotting issues in multiple ⊛ quests,
reunions and sieges 235
Chapter 32 American Beauty: Multiple ⊛ social siege 242
Section 3 Double journeys ⊚ 246
Chapter 33 Double journeys 246
Section 4 Flashback ⊚ 252
Chapter 34 Flashback: An introduction 252
Chapter 35 Simple flashback forms 254
Chapter 36 C omplex or double ⊚ flashback:
An introduction 271
Chapter 37 Thwarted dream and case history flashback 278
Chapter 38 Flashback: Protagonists, antagonists, and the
enigmatic outsider 287
Chapter 39 Autobiographical ⊞-over flashback 301
Chapter 40 Planning a double ⊚ flashback film 304
Chapter 41 Case studies of flashback films: Hybrids and oddities 313
Contents vii
Section 5 Consecutive stories ⊚ 328
Chapter 42 Consecutive stories ⊚: An introduction 328
Chapter 43 Consecutive stories: Stories walking into the picture 334
Chapter 44 Consecutive stories: Different perspectives 337
Chapter 45 Consecutive stories: Different consequences 342
Chapter 46 Consecutive stories: Portmanteau films 347
Chapter 47 Consecutive stories: Fixing journey stories with a
portmanteau (Homer’s Odyssey) 370
Section 6 Fractured tandem ⊚ 376
Chapter 48 Fractured tandem: An introduction 376
Chapter 49 Pace, connection, meaning and closure in
fractured tandem 380
Chapter 50 Fractured tandem: The structure of 21 Grams 386
Chapter 51 Four fractured tandem films 397
Part 5 Lost in the Telling:
Films with Structural Flaws
409
Chapter 52 Conventional ⊚ films with structural flaws 411
Chapter 53 Parallel ⊚ films with structural flaws 419
Part 6 Getting It on the Page
443
Chapter 54 ⊕ writing: Exposition, backstory and subtext 445
Chapter 55 ⊘ 449
Chapter 56 Treatment/outline writing and the script as an
instruction manual 467
Index 476
List of figures
Figure 1.1 Vertical thinking 5
Figure 1.2 Lateral thinking in action 6
Figure 1.3 A dvantages and dangers of vertical and
lateral thinking 9
Figure 2.1 Breaking down genres into tasks 24
Figure 2.2 Genre table for a war movie 24
Figure 4.1 Mind map on the ⊙ of poverty 36
Figure 5.1 The three-act structure as a mountain 54
Figure 5.2 Christopher Vogler’s hero’s journey (simplified) 54
Figure 5.3 The three-act structure as a road or timeline 55
Figure 5.4 Basic Smiley/Thompson nine-point plan 56
Figure 5.5 Nine-point plan compared with three-act model 56
Figure 5.6 ‘Cinderella’ broken down into the basic
Smiley/Thompson plan 57
Figure 5.7 Extended version of the Smiley/Thompson plan 60
Figure 6.1 Basic plan of what your film has to contain
and depict 63
Figure 6.2 H ypothetical structure chart for writing
Being John Malkovich 65
Figure 11.1 Character chart 93
Figure 14.1 What your film has to contain and depict
(expanded version) 118
Figure 21.1 Types of parallel ⊚ film at present 172
Figure 24.1 The plots in Nashville 188
Figure 36.1 The triggering crisis in Shine, Slumdog Millionaire
and The English Patient 274
Figure 36.2 Flashback ⊚ is like two of Vogler’s
circles 275
Figure 36.3 The triggering crisis in Citizen Kane and
The Usual Suspects 276
Figure 36.4 The jumping pattern in double ⊚
flashback 276
viii
List of figures ix
Figure 37.1 T he structural mechanics of Shine
(thwarted dream) 283
Figure 37.2 The structural mechanics of The Usual Suspects
(case history) 284
Figure 41.1 ⊕ sequences in Memento’s action line 323
Figure 41.2 Joel’s story in Eternal Sunshine
(preview flashback) 326
Figure 46.1 The Joy Luck Club portmanteau 350
Figure 46.2 The Pulp Fiction portmanteau 355
Figure 46.3 The structure of Amores Perros 365
Figure 50.1 The beats in 21 Grams 391
Figure 50.2 21 Grams: Chris’s story stops at its first peak
(21 Grams) 393
Figure 50.3 2 1 Grams: Paul and Jack’s stories are not mountain
structures (21 Grams) 393
Figure 55.1 ‘Going on holiday’, version 1 451
Figure 55.2 ‘Going on holiday’, version 2 456
Figure 55.3 ‘The break-up’, version 1 457
Figure 55.4 ‘The break-up’, version 2 460
Figure 55.5 ‘The break-up’, version 3 463
Figure 56.1 Extract from ‘Getting to know you’, episode 5,
Something in the Air 468
Figure 56.2 Poor treatment writing 472
viii
List of ⊧
strategies
⊧ Strategy 1: Define the task at hand 12
⊧ Strategy 2: Brainstorm the best ‘real but
unusual’ remedy 13
⊧ Strategy 3: The genre equation 22
⊧ Strategy 4: Find non-⊚ triggers 30
⊧ Strategy 5: Create a simple ⊚
sentence 66
⊧ Strategy 6: Create an advanced ⊚
sentence 66
⊧ Strategy 7: Make sure the disturbance happens
soon and involves real change 70
⊧ Strategy 8: Distinguish an idea from a story 71
⊧ Strategy 9: Differentiate the action line and the
relationship line 72
⊧ Strategy 10: Create a relationship road 74
⊧ Strategy 11: Peg the relationship line to the action
line and start creating a three-act
structure for the relationship line 75
⊧ Strategy 12: Identify the ⊛ 83
⊧ Strategy 13: Identify the ⊣ 90
⊧ Strategy 14: Find out what the ⊗ tells you
about characters 92
⊧ Strategy 15: Get into character 94
⊧ Strategy 16: Create a ⊠ 97
⊧ Strategy 17: Insert a misleading plan 100
⊧ Strategy 18: Find the first-act turning point ⊕
(surprise/obstacle) 103
⊧ Strategy 19: D evise second-act complications
via the first-act turning point 107
x
List of ⊧ strategies xi
⊧ Strategy 20: Second-act turning point part 1:
⊛’s worst possible moment 110
⊧ Strategy 21: Second-act turning point part 2:
Decision to fight back 110
⊧ Strategy 22: Check that the relationship line is
moving 111
⊧ Strategy 23: Find the ⊝ and first-act turning
point 114
⊧ Strategy 24: Come to a ⊡ and ⊥ 115
⊧ Strategy 25: Use symbolism and myth 117
x
Foreword
Uncharted Territory
For any artist the act of creation is always a journey into uncharted territory.
In the twenty-first century no artists are more aware of this than screenwrit-
ers. We know that the landscape of our profession is changing. As we set out
on the journey to write the next great screenplay, we are always mindful of
those who have gone before us and eager to learn from their travellers’ tales.
In recent years we have seen vast audiences gravitating towards innovative
television shows such as Lost and The Wire. We have noticed cinema audi-
ences flocking to unconventional movies such as Pan’s Labyrinth and Slumdog
Millionaire. We have also noticed that these unconventional works have been
winning not only audiences but also awards. We are being challenged by a
bewildering set of variations on traditional ⊚ forms. At the same time
we are struggling to understand a complex global marketplace, continual
developments in new technologies, and the emergence of multiplatform dis-
tribution systems. It is a very confusing world. We are invited to imagine
stories large enough for IMAX screens and small enough for mobile phones.
We need to be masters of linear ⊚ forms and pioneers in experimental
story structures. We can see that the world of the screenwriter is changing
and we know that the old maps don’t help us anymore. As we each set out on
our journeys seeking as always to generate new ideas, develop unforgettable
characters, and create effective dramatic stories, we are more than a little
confused by the breakdown of old paradigms. In these circumstances we are
fortunate that Linda Aronson has stepped forward with a travel guide in the
form of her new book The 21st-Century Screenplay: A comprehensive guide to
writing tomorrow’s films.
The seeds of this book were planted in Linda Aronson’s previous work
called Screenwriting Updated, which was first published almost ten years
ago. The 21st-Century Screenplay is half the size again of its predecessor and
incorporates a more detailed analysis of the traditional and emerging models
for structuring a screenplay.
The 21st-Century Screenplay is presented in the most user-friendly and
practical manner. Topics include Getting Ideas, Conventional ⊚
Structure, Practical Plotting, Parallel ⊚ (ensemble and time jump
xii
Foreword xiii
films), Films with Structural Flaws and Getting It on the Page. The book
provides practical advice on screenplay structure using classical and contem-
porary examples such as The African Queen, The Piano, Eternal Sunshine of
the Spotless Mind, 21 Grams, Babel, The Hours, Run Lola Run, The Butterfly
Effect and City of God.
Screenwriters are familiar with the fear of the blank page and the terri-
fying array of options that confront us as we embark on a creative journey.
The good news is that Linda Aronson’s book is about solutions. She identi-
fies the challenges and provides helpful examples and illuminating diagrams
that prompt us to overcome the obstacles. She provides advice on core writ-
ing skills such as ⊘, subtext, plotting beats and writing treatments.
She also offers in-depth analysis of popular genres such as romantic comedy,
journey films, short films, and the special demands of adaptation. The book
also contains a provocative chapter on flawed films (‘Lost in the Telling’) pro-
viding a critical analysis of films such as The Insider, Syriana and Gods and
Monsters.
Without being prescriptive the book provides models and templates
which are designed to serve as guides to the art of structuring a ⊚
that will engage an audience, maintain interest and communicate meaning.
Linda Aronson is a multi-talented, award-winning writer of plays, screen-
plays, television drama and young adult fiction (the latter published in many
languages). She has written widely for the screen in the United Kingdom,
Australia, New Zealand and the United States. Her credits include Kostas,
directed by Paul Cox, the much-loved Australian stage play with music Din-
kum Assorted, which premiered at the Sydney Opera House, the acclaimed
comic novels for young adults Kelp: A comedy of love, seaweed and Rupert
Murdoch (which won the Sanderson Book Prize), Rude Health, Plain Rude
and Naturally Rude, and an extensive range of TV drama including Austral-
ian Writers’ Guild AWGIE Award-winning episodes of Singles and Learned
Friends for television. Linda is also a highly regarded teacher of screenwrit-
ing. Having taught widely for many years in Australia, she now acts as a script
consultant internationally and presents guest lectures for major organisations
in places all over the world, including Los Angeles, New York, London, Paris,
Berlin, Dublin, Johannesburg, Prague, Stockholm, Copenhagen, Singapore
and Auckland. Her remarkable body of work covers the mainstream as well
as the margins of her profession and this experience gives authority to her
⊞. Linda’s respect for the traditions of her art and her love of the conven-
tions of her trade are balanced by her enthusiasm for the most innovative and
experimental works of contemporary cinema and television. As a writer and
xii
xiv The 21st-Century Screenplay
teacher she is an authority on the pleasures of the well-trodden path and the
thrill of the road less travelled. She also delights in the challenge of exploring
totally uncharted territory.
As a screenwriting teacher at New York University I recommend a broad
spectrum of textbooks to my students. I tend to the view that most of these
books offer something of value and each of them is essentially as good as
the person who reads them. In the case of Linda Aronson’s work I make
an exception. The 21st-Century Screenplay addresses areas not covered by
others. The book provides the services of a personal script editor, drama-
turg or even co-writer. It functions as a manual as well as a road map. The
21st-Century Screenplay is an essential guide for the twenty-first-century
screenwriter. When setting out on a journey it always helps to take a map.
The 21st-Century Screenplay is a special kind of road map because it encour-
ages us to explore uncharted territory. Enjoy this book. Don’t leave home
without it.
Paul Thompson
Associate Professor
Film and Television
New York University
xv
Preface
When I first thought about writing this book several years ago my intention
was simply to write a new edition of Scriptwriting Updated: New and con-
ventional ways of writing for the screen, which had first seen the light of day
in 2000. However, it rapidly became clear that too much had changed since
then for this to be desirable or even possible. For a start, parallel ⊚
films had proliferated at an astonishing rate all over the world. Screenwriters
like Guillermo Arriaga, Paul Haggis, David Hare, Charlie Kaufman, Bràulio
Mantovani and Christopher Nolan had pushed the boundaries of ⊚
even further, creating ever more complex script structures in films like 21
Grams, Crash, The Hours, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, City of God
and Memento, films that, excitingly, displayed consistent patterns that meant
writers could use them as templates. Obviously, any book I wrote had to
explain these. But over and above all of this I needed to include all the new
ideas, subtleties and changes of mind I’d become aware of in myself during
those ten years—all of which, I should say, had been immeasurably assisted
by the penetrating, enthusiastic and thought-provoking feedback I’d had
from the literally hundreds of fine writers of all backgrounds and all levels
of experience I’d met when I’d acted as a mentor in various script and writer
⊧ programs and when (with delight and no small surprise), I
found myself invited to give lectures on Scriptwriting Updated to filmmakers’
organisations and film schools and universities all over the world.
As well as inspiring me with new ideas, the feedback from those film-
makers on what they liked about Screenwriting Updated was invaluable.
They kept kept saying how much they valued practicality and ease of refer-
ence during writing. Hence, in The 21st-Century Screenplay, I have focused
even more on these things. I have increased the number of case studies and
invented hypothetical examples to illustrate typical craft problems. I’ve also
opted for very short chapters, which, I’ve found through teaching, make top-
ics not only easier to find but also to absorb.
The result has been a much larger book than Scriptwriting Updated, one
that takes the theories and practical techniques of Scriptwriting Updated much
further and includes so much that either does not appear in Scriptwriting
xv
xvi The 21st-Century Screenplay
Updated or is so condensed, or massively expanded or otherwise altered that
the final book, The 21st-Century Screenplay, consists, in essence, of new or
significantly changed material bookended by the ⊨ and closing chap-
ters of Scriptwriting Updated. Even so, the ⊨ ‘Getting Ideas’ section
from Scriptwriting Updated appears in The 21st-Century Screenplay with a
new chapter called ‘What film are we in?’ (about preventing problems before
first draft), while the last section, ‘Getting It on the Page’ is enlarged by new
material on how to create subtext.
In the part of the book that deals with conventional ⊚, in response
to the strongly positive feedback on my ⊧ strategies method of
constructing a three-act ⊚, I have rethought, polished and expanded
the existing strategies, adding new ones to cover new content about devis-
ing the second and third act, inner and outer story and ⊞-over. Since so
many readers found my analysis of The Piano useful, it remains unchanged
except for comment on its inner story/outer story content. A new, and I think
extremely important, addition in the book is a section called ‘Practical ⊗-
ting’, which explains through examples a range of vital, day-to-day writing
techniques (like picking and condensing story beats), things that are usually
learnt only through practice. In this section readers familiar with my work
will notice fragments from Scriptwriting Updated and from my craft skills
newsletters, as well as extracts from an article that first appeared in ‘Script
Mechanics: Understanding and fixing the script’ in Tom Jeffrey’s Film Busi-
ness (Allen & Unwin, 2006) and extracts from another article ‘Characters
in search of a ⊗’ that first appeared in Newswrite, the journal of the NSW
Writers’ Centre.
Probably the most significant and far-reaching change relates to Part 4
of the book, which deals with parallel ⊚ (that is, films that use mul-
tiple stories and/or non-linearity). In response to requests from those many
writers all over the world who are passionately interested in the topic, this
part has been massively extended and rearranged to cover six, not four, main
categories of parallel ⊚, with many sub-categories. And for greater
clarity, the material that remains from Scriptwriting Updated has been almost
completely re-drafted.
Part 4 now includes two entirely new categories of parallel ⊚. The
first I term ‘Double journeys’ (films like Brokeback Mountain, The Lemon
Tree, The Lives of Others and The Departed, that follow two characters travel-
ling towards or apart from each other, or in parallel, and thus require two
separate action lines). The second I’ve named ‘Fractured tandem’ (films like
21 Grams, The Hours, Crash and Babel, which consist of equally weighted
Preface xvii
stories running in tandem but in a fractured form). Fractured tandem is par-
ticularly exciting because, as I explain, it can successfully handle stories that
are exposition-heavy and contain truncated or practically non-existent sec-
ond acts (stories rightly considered unsuitable for the conventional three-act,
one-hero paradigm). This has made some writers joke that I have announced
‘the death of the ⊪’. I haven’t, I have just pointed out how a cer-
tain non-linear structure can insert pace, connection, meaning and closure
into story material that does not possess it by virtue of the chronological
progression of increasingly suspenseful events. Based on this extraordinary
characteristic, I have also described how fractured tandem can be used both
as a remedy for certain kinds of problematic three-act, one-hero structures
and to insert suspense into didactic tandem ⊚ films (which often set
out to depict social wrongs, so end up being predictable).
Two other new and lengthy sections had their origins in a single chapter
in Scriptwriting Updated, the chapter devoted to tandem and sequential nar-
rative. Tandem ⊚ (equally weighted stories running simultaneously
in the same time frame, the form of films like Nashville, Traffic and Lantana)
is now dealt with next to an expanded section on multiple ⊛ form
because I feel both are forms of ensemble films. I explain how the widespread
misapprehension that ensemble films either do not need structure (because
they are ‘character driven’) or must have a single hero (resulting in weak and
redundant hero figures) has been responsible for many films that are charac-
ters in search of a ⊗. Sequential ⊚ (which I now term ‘consecutive
stories’ ⊚ to differentiate it from a theory that emerged after Script-
writing Updated about devising linear three-act films in sequences) is the
form of films like Rashomon, Run Lola Run and The Circle and, in fractured
forms (which I term ‘portmanteau’ forms), is the structure of films like Pulp
Fiction, The Butterfly Effect and City of God. I split consecutive stories form
into four sub-categories and explain how the portmanteau versions act in a
similar way to fractured tandem, having the capacity to turn a series of sto-
ries that lack normal connection and chronologically building drama into a
coherent, suspenseful film. Also included in the consecutive stories section
is a chapter on the consecutive stories structure of Homer’s Odyssey, which,
fascinatingly, may, I think, provide a very useful structure not only for jour-
ney stories and biographies in feature films, but for television mini-series.
However, it is the flashback section that is now the biggest of all. It
includes several new sub-categories of flashback. Most significant is ‘preview
flashback’, the form used in films like ⊯ Clayton, Goodfellas and Walk
the Line, a most useful form, in which a ⊕ from late in the film is inserted
xviii The 21st-Century Screenplay
at the start as a hook before the film plays from start to finish chronologi-
cally. The flashback section also discusses hybridisation (which is happening
all the time) and contains many case studies, including detailed analyses of
Memento, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind and The Constant Gardener.
Since the first question that writers always ask about parallel ⊚ is
‘Which structure suits my film?’ I have a chapter at the start of Part 4 enti-
tled exactly that, designed as a starting point for planning. As another aid to
planning, each category and sub-category of parallel ⊚ is followed by
suggestions on how to use existing films as templates. Hence, if you want to
write a film structured like 21 Grams or City of God or Pulp Fiction, you will
find practical suggestions about how to plan and assemble it.
Finally ‘Lost in the Telling’, a very popular chapter in Scriptwriting Updated
dealing with the structural weaknesses in various problem films, returns with
a section on parallel ⊚ films that don’t achieve their potential includ-
ing my theories on how to use forms like flashback and fractured tandem to
fix certain script types that don’t work in linear form.
Lack of space has unfortunately necessitated cuts, including my charts
of flashback films, showing how and when the stories jump between time
frames. I will make these available on my website at <www.lindaaronson.
net>.
In the matter of style, I am conscious that in my effort to be clear and
concise, particularly for the benefit of my readers whose first language is not
English, I might sometimes sound dogmatic. This is unintentional. I don’t
believe in grand theories and unbreakable rules. I believe that scriptwrit-
ing, like all art forms, is always changing and reinventing itself and that is
something to celebrate. My view is well expressed by David Hare, who says:
‘Although there are rules, there are also no rules that can’t be broken if they’re
broken brilliantly enough’ and I fully expect to have my theories proved
inadequate by some brilliant writer’s ⊚ breakthroughs, indeed, I look
forward to it. Hence, as much as possible I have tried to preface advice by
qualifications like ‘You might try’ or ‘Your best bet’, but after a while such
constructions become ponderous and hinder clarity. Where I don’t qualify
my statements, readers should remember that I am just one writer expressing
a personal opinion. That said, on the occasions where I use a flat ‘don’t’ the
usage is conscious and is there because I’m discussing areas in which I have
seen many writers come to grief. In such cases, ‘don’t’ properly should read
‘proceed with extreme caution’.
So many individuals and institutions contributed in so many ways to
the planning and ⊧ of this book that I cannot mention them all.
Preface xix
Particular thanks for sharing so generously of their time and expertise must
go to Guillermo Arriaga, Andrew Bovell, Charles Harris, Simon Johnstone,
J. Mira Kopell, Lisa Ohlin, Danny Rubin, Linda Seger, Robin Swicord, Paul
Thompson, Roger Tucker and Martin Winkler. For their ongoing encourage-
ment over the years I thank Jim Fox, Judy Holland, Julian Henriques, Pavel
Jech, Tony Morphett, Phil Parker, Susan Rogers, Robert Smith, Duncan
Thompson, Christopher Vogler, Kees Vroege, David Williamson and Kate
Woods.
Institutions and organisations whose dynamic, enthusiastic people wel-
comed and inspired me (very necessary to someone writing in isolation)
include AFTRS, the American Film Institute, the Australian Writers’ Guild,
CEEA (Paris), Columbia University, Danish National Film School, DFFB
(Berlin), Digital Media Academy (Singapore), FAMU (Czech Republic),
Goldsmiths’ College (University of London), Leeds Metropolitan Univer-
sity, London College of Communication (University of the Arts, London),
Monash University (South Africa), National Film and Tele vision School UK,
New Producers’ Alliance (London), New South Wales Writers’ Centre, New
Zealand Film Commission, New Zealand Writers Guild Foundation, New
York University, POEM (Finland), QPIX, RMIT, Royal Holloway College
(University of London), SP*RK (Screen Australia), the Screen Producers
Association of Australia, Screen Training Ireland, Sources 2 (Berlin), the
Swedish Film Institute, The London Screenwriters’ Workshop, The Script
Factory (London), University of California, Berkeley, University of Ljubliana
and UTS.
Very special thanks must go to a small group of people. Thanks go to
Paul Thompson for his constant support and for writing such a kind fore-
word. They go to my publisher Elizabeth Weiss, for her patience and good
humour as the book took longer and longer to arrive and to editors Aziza
Kuypers, Ann Lennox and all at Allen & Unwin for their talent and profes-
sionalism. They go to my agent Geoffrey Radford for always being at the
end of the phone, wherever, whenever. Finally and crucially they go to Lisa
and Mark Aronson, without whose limitless commitment, encouragement
and advice—not to mention legendary proof-reading skills—I would still be
writing this book, probably from a padded cell.
I owe an enormous debt to you all.
Linda Aronson
1 March 2010
Sydney
This page intentionally left blank
Part 1
Getting Ideas
This page intentionally left blank
3
Chapter 1
Creativity and general problem
solving
There are many Things that a writer cannot control in the film indus-
try. What we can control are the ideas we choose for our scripts. The most
important ingredient in screenwriting is a first-rate film idea. This may sound
obvious, but in fact many very talented writers do not fulfil their potential to
write world-class scripts because they choose ideas which, while interesting
and deeply felt, unfortunately, are simply not strikingly original enough for
the highly competitive, expensive medium of feature film, particularly now
that feature film has to compete for market share with drama from an ever-
increasing number of platforms. Of course, we should all be passionately
committed to the films we are writing, but there is no point in writing a script
that has no chance of being made, and this means asking the hard questions,
and asking them early. The question to ask is not so much ‘Do i passionately
want to write a film on this topic?’ but rather, ‘is my film so vividly original
that audiences all over the world will go to the cinema on a wet monday night
to see it?’ (This is particularly important for art-house films, as they already
have a limited demographic.) if it is not, ask yourself whether you want to
invest a couple of years of your life in a script only to have producers tell you
that you’re a terrific writer but unfortunately your script won’t find a market.
all of us, experienced writers and newcomers, need to take on competi-
tion in the way that Olympic athletes do: calmly, consciously and consistently
aiming high, pushing our imagination and talent to the limits. in practical
terms, we can try to do this by employing targeted brainstorming to get good
ideas then meticulously planning our script structure.
Getting good ideas
The two perennial writing problems in scriptwriting are getting good ideas
and structuring them properly. The enemy is pressure, particularly pressure
of time, because it triggers a panic reflex that tempts us either to use clichés
or to write story material that strains credibility.
The fact that so many clichéd and unbelievable films are made every year
3
4 The 21st-Century Screenplay
is testament to the power of this panic reflex. it would be reassuring if all of
these weak films were made by inferior talents, but the sobering reality is
that the people creating and funding such films—the people seduced and
dazzled by what will appear to the rest of the world and, eventually, to them-
selves as a second-rate movie—are usually highly talented, sophisticated and
commercially savvy people with a string of successful credits; otherwise they
would not be in the position of making films in the first place. The lesson is
that pressure has the power to warp the judgment of the best of us. We can
all make stupid mistakes. Unfortunately, as we can’t slow the industry down,
the pressure is not going to go away. Time pressures have been part of the
dramatist’s job description since at least shakespeare’s day, and the reality for
scriptwriters is that the job is not just about talent but about a capacity to be
talented on command and to a deadline.
so what can we do? Well, we can ignore the problem and hope that it will
never happen to us. a more sensible choice is to realise that at some point it
will, then attempt to define and pinpoint what is going on intellectually when
we make stress-related writing mistakes, and also when we are writing well.
That way, not only should we be able to short-circuit the stress-related impulses
towards cliché and the incredible, but hopefully—if we can just work out what’s
occurring mentally when we are writing well—we may be able to reproduce the
process to order, and find techniques that will help us to be creative at speed,
under pressure and for long periods of time. as Jack London succinctly put it,
you can’t wait for inspiration: you have to go after it with a club.
De Bono’s creativity theories and screenwriting
many accounts of the actual writing process exist, all remarkably similar.
They describe an interaction between imagination and technique, a dual
process whereby a logical, craft-skilled part of the writer’s mind works to
filter and make sense of streams of ideas, images and words coming from
another part of the mind, usually loosely termed the ‘imagination’, ‘subcon-
scious’, ‘right brain’ or, in earlier times, ‘fancy’.
interestingly, this division between imagination and technique, instantly
recognisable to all kinds of writers, is also recognisable in terms of edward de
Bono’s ground-breaking theories about the workings of creativity in Lateral
Thinking (1970). in fact, de Bono’s theories provide such a useful breakdown
of the writing process as described by all manner of writers over the centuries
that they can be used in a very practical way to pinpoint how good writing
happens, and how poor writing can be improved.
Creativity and general problem solving 5
VerTICal anD laTeral ThInkInG
De Bono describes two sorts of creativity, instantly recognisable to writers
from their own work patterns. The first, ‘vertical thinking’, is a step-by-step
logic that results in ‘right’ and ‘wrong’ answers. it’s the sort of thought pro-
cess that we apply in arithmetic, and writers use it for such tasks as judging
whether a ⊗ point is credible, or whether a piece of ⊘ sounds life-
like. The poet Coleridge called it ‘the organizing spirit of imagination’. We
call it craft or technique. its negative side is that it can push us to produce
technically correct clichés. Vertical thinking makes up the ‘ninety per cent
perspiration’ side of the writing process. The steps are depicted in Figure 1.1.
Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Answer
Figure 1.1 Vertical thinking
The second sort of imaginative thought process, ‘lateral thinking’, makes
up the ‘ten per cent inspiration’. it is a generative and very personal, asso-
ciational, stream-of-consciousness thought process that is concerned with
providing as many answers as possible, regardless of quality. The lateral mind
is what is unique about each writer. in the old days it was called the writer’s
‘fancy’ or ‘muse’. it is what is at work when we write about emotions or intuit
clever links between disparate things and, because it lacks any judgment, it
is also what is at work when our work becomes ‘over the top’ or unfocused.
Figure 1.2 depicts the lateral imagination in action, responding to a stimulus
by accessing masses of connections, logical or otherwise.
good writing seems to happen when craft (provided by vertical thinking)
and the writer’s unique view of the world (provided by lateral thinking) are
inextricably mixed to produce a work of striking originality. For screenwrit-
ers who regularly work under pressure of time, in the rush to finish a script it
is easy to either underuse the two sorts of thought process, or else to use each
for the wrong jobs. The result is writing that is less original and less techni-
cally skilled than it needs to be.
What causes weak writing
Few of us have escaped the depressing experience of finding that something
we thought to be a fine piece of writing turns out, in the cold light of day, to
be clichéd or unbelievable or just simply over the top. how precisely does
this happen? how can a fine, experienced writer produce technically correct
6 The 21st-Century Screenplay
memory bank 40
memory bank 2 memory bank 235
memory bank 100 memory bank 598
memory bank 126
memory bank 8
memory bank 27
memory bank 535
STIMULUS
memory bank 438 memory bank 289
memory bank 713
Figure 1.2 lateral thinking in action
but clichéd material? how can an exciting new writer let a good idea fizzle
out into cliché, or become incredible or silly? how is it that we do not recog-
nise poor work at the time of writing?
Weak writing seems to happen when there is an imbalance between verti-
cal and lateral thinking (often caused by pressure of time).
The DanGerS oF BeInG Too VerTICal
Being too vertical can make writers produce clichés without being aware of it.
Because vertical thinking is based on experience, learnt skills and logic, it can
only repeat and classify information that it has encountered before—in the
case of screenwriting, what it has encountered before on screen. Functioning
as it does on facts, accuracy and the idea of ‘right’ and ‘wrong’ information,
vertical thinking tends to seize upon the first possible solution to any prob-
lem and stop there, quite uncritically, convinced that this is the ‘right’ answer.
in screenwriting, the effect is to make the writer, even a fine one, produce
a cliché and be happy with it; for example, creating a female character so
weak it can only be described as ‘love interest’. in all areas of screenwriting
requiring originality (premise, characters, backstory, ⊘ etc.), vertical
thinking can only suggest what has been done before on screen. hence, an
over-reliance on vertical thinking will always pull towards cliché.
For example, given the problem of writing the screenplay for a film cen-
tred on a police station, busy professional writers unconsciously locked into
Creativity and general problem solving 7
vertical thinking will conclude that the ‘right’ way to do it (because this is
what we’ve all seen before), is to have a range of stereotypical characters with
stereotypical backstories, speech and plotlines (the rebel cop with the bad
marriage paired with the conservative cop with the good marriage; the disap-
proving chief detective who constantly threatens the rebel with dismissal; the
cynical, uniformed female cop, and so on).
in addition to the cliché problem, the emotional authenticity of stories and
characters created by vertical thinking is always shaky because the writer is
not getting into the characters’ heads and trying to feel the emotion. instead,
the emotions and ⊘ are being unconsciously copied from our mem-
ory of other films and television shows, which the vertical thinking mindset
convinces us is what people say and feel in the given situation.
Overdependence on vertical thinking often happens through exhaustion
(particularly for storyliners/consultants on television series), and is a peren-
nial problem for established writers, making them write ‘on automatic pilot’
without being aware of it.
in Selling Your Screenplay (1988), Carl sautter gave an interesting example
of vertical thinking at work when he was story editor on the Us TV drama
series Moonlighting. Part of his job was to listen to writers pitching story
ideas. he commented:
I was astonished that almost every writer pitched variations of
exactly the same plots. The most popular: Maddie and David are
trapped together. each writer pitched this isolation idea with
fervour, confident that it was the most original and compelling
notion of all time.
i heard a similar and equally frightening story from a judge in a short-film
competition, where a staggering number of the many hundreds of films sub-
mitted had essentially the same ⊗. This had a person arriving at their car
to find a stranger doing something bad to it (unlocking it, giving it a parking
ticket etc.) and then the person assaulting the stranger, only to find that the
car is not theirs. a similarly high percentage of the films in the competition
indicated ‘morning’ by a close-up of a beeping alarm clock and a hand com-
ing into frame to switch it off.
The DanGerS oF BeInG Too laTeral
an over-reliance on lateral thinking makes the script pull towards the incred-
ible, silly, repetitive, unfocused and overly emotional. Lateral thinking is
prone to all kinds of problems connected with poor technique and the ‘real’,
8 The 21st-Century Screenplay
because lateral thinking has no interest in such things; indeed, it lacks any
kind of critical faculty at all. Lateral thinking pushes the writer to write for the
sake of writing, unconcerned about structure, focus, repetition, intelligibility
and redundancy. it falls in love with its own cleverness in devising ⊘
or ideas or jokes, and doesn’t know when to stop. in ⊗ and characterisation,
this means it is unable to discriminate between what is real and what is over
the top. it is at work in all of those thriller films where the audience finds itself
thinking: ‘Why don’t these people just call the police?’ or ‘Why are they walk-
ing into what is so obviously a trap?’ in characterisation, being too lateral will
pull us towards writing material that is maudlin. it will frequently make the
writer too visible, and often lead to the preachy and the overt.
Because its whole approach is that more is better (quantity rather than
quality), it can unwittingly produce the same ⊕ (in essence) over and
over again. actor–writers are highly prone to this fault because lateral think-
ing is the major imaginative skill they have to use in improvisation, and when
they come to write they automatically resort to it. This means that they tend
to create a unique character and keep showing it doing the same thing over
and over again. Mr Saturday Night, produced, written and directed by Billy
Crystal, is a good example (see pp. 434–7).
Lateral thinking can also pull the writer to write in ‘real time’, mean-
ing they create scenes as they would actually happen in real life, and not to
cleverly push the ⊗ and characterisation forward under the guise of natu-
ralism. Lateral thinking cannot monitor how much exposition or backstory
to include or when. it doesn’t know when enough is enough. it typically pro-
duces scripts with several apparent endings before the real one.
Why IS IT So eaSy To GeT VerTICal anD laTeral
ThInkInG ouT oF BalanCe?
in their separate ways, vertical and lateral thinking are immensely seductive
(see Figure 1.3 for a comparison of both approaches). each creates an enormous,
but false, sense of self-confidence. What makes things worse is that, in the pres-
sured world of the film industry, the process of stopping to check that vertical
and lateral thinking are in balance is counter-intuitive. Our every instinct is to
jump at the first half-decent idea, whether it is a cliché resulting from vertical
thinking or a half-baked idea resulting from lateral thinking. at every turn there
is pressure to get something on paper. and of course, once scenes and ⊘
are on the page, it is almost impossible for a writer to throw them away. The
result is that writers can easily become deeply committed to ideas—just because
they were the first ideas that occurred to them—that do not do them justice.
Creativity and general problem solving 9
While both new and experienced writers are capable of imbalances in
either direction, stress will typically make the more experienced writer rely
on vertical thinking’s craft skills, forget originality and jump with relief at
the first half-decent idea so as to get at least something on paper. meanwhile,
the less experienced writer will typically get carried away on the imaginative
roller coaster that is lateral thinking, exuberantly throwing credibility and all
critical faculties to the wind.
Vertical thinking is seductive because its quick answers make the writer
feel totally in control. Lateral thinking is seductive because its lack of self-
criticism not only results in fluent, fast writing, but convinces the writer that
everything they have written is wonderful. in both cases, the combination of
fluency and self-confidence is hard for any writer to resist.
and writers are not the only ones to succumb to an imbalance of this
kind: the fact that there are so many scripts that are unbelievable or clichéd
means that directors, producers and network executives are also susceptible.
indeed, one often hears producers suggesting clichés because they feel that
clichés are part of the genre (‘. . . then a rookie girl journalist comes in to
investigate and she falls in love with him!’). The hard economic truth is that
imbalances between vertical and lateral thinking cost the film industry many
millions of dollars a year.
VERTICAL LATERAL
Advantages Dangers Advantages Dangers
Can give original
Provides credible Can become Can become
ideas at every
plotting clichéd unfocused
stage of plotting
Pushes to
Has good Can become transcend limits Can become
structural sense overstructured and clichés of unstructured
structure
Will pick up
Has good sense of Can become Can become
the archetypal,
the everyday mundane incredible, silly
mythical
Can become
Has good sense of Will provide Can become
predictable,
naturalism unusual ideas incredible
boring
Can cause
Sense of unity, Provides a Can become
rigidity, lack of
perfectionism personal ⊞ overly subjective
originality
10 The 21st-Century Screenplay
VERTICAL LATERAL
Advantages Dangers Advantages Dangers
Can become Lacks capacity
Good critical sense Open to all ideas
overcritical for criticism
Provides
Strong intellectual Can be overly Can result in
powerful
content theoretical melodrama
emotions
Commercial Can be Provides original No commercial
instinct overcautious ⊞ instinct
Figure 1.3 advantages and dangers of vertical and lateral thinking
how to use vertical and lateral thinking
successful pieces of screenwriting—perhaps of all sorts of writing—are always
credible but highly original, which means, in the words of Carl sautter, they
are always ‘real but unusual’. While they might take a traditional genre or
situation, just as Strictly Ballroom takes the Cinderella story, they will always
give it a strikingly new twist. even if the work produced is avant-garde and
non-naturalistic, the ‘real but unusual’ factor applies because what is ‘real’ in
such cases is an emotional or intellectual reality, or sometimes both.
This balance between real and unusual seems to be a key to success in
everything from the initial idea through to things like structure, characteri-
sation and ⊘. in fact, it’s useful to follow Carl sautter’s advice and
think of the phrase ‘real but unusual’ as a motto for writing generally.
We can use lateral and vertical thinking processes to give us these ‘real but
unusual’ components. ‘real’ seems to be linked with vertical, and ‘unusual’
with lateral. To achieve a balance between the real and the unusual during
writing, we can consciously switch between lateral, which can generate new
and original ideas, and vertical, which, with its logic and analytical skills, can
monitor the credibility and appropriateness of suggestions created by lateral.
The trick is to know which jobs are best done with which process.
an analogy is driving a car. you can’t drive a car without alternating
between the brake and the accelerator. To ‘drive’ a script, alternate the accel-
erator pedal (lateral thinking, which drives the script forward by originality
and emotion) with the brake pedal (logical vertical thinking, which keeps the
script in control—that is, structured and ‘real’). it is easy to be either too cli-
chéd (using only the vertical imagination), in which case the ‘car’ will grind
to a halt, or too emotional, unstructured and over the top (using only lateral),
in which case the ‘car’ will go off the road.
Creativity and general problem solving 11
The ⊧ strategies method
is there any way to control the balance between vertical and lateral thinking
so that we can write to our best? While of course no method is absolutely
foolproof, it is possible to duplicate the process that happens when vertical
and lateral are working well together. This process breaks down into three
steps which are repeated over and over again:
1 Vertical thinking defines the task; for example, inventing a speech
for a particular character that will get across specific ⊗ and ⊙
details while remaining credibly in character.
2 Lateral thinking brainstorms the task, running through a number
of possibilities and making as many original connections as possible.
3 Vertical thinking chooses the best ‘real but unusual’ answer.
⊧ Strategies 1 and 2: Diagnosis and
general problem solving
From my work with writers and producers i have created a set of questions
and reminders i call ⊧ strategies which copy this natural three-step
problem-solving, imagination-boosting process. There is a wide range of devel-
opment strategies in this book. Their aim is to stop our naturally highly active
imaginations running away with themselves by consciously keeping lateral and
vertical thinking functioning methodically in tandem. ⊧ strategies 1
and 2, described in the following pages, are designed to assist with general writing
problems. They help with getting original ideas at every stage of the writing proc-
ess by consciously firing the imagination with a variety of good triggers while
ensuring that the resultant ideas are based in human truths and presented with
sound technique. They can help with everything from getting a good idea for a
film to creating a powerful speech. Later ⊧ strategies help to pinpoint
the specific originality of the idea, act as reminders about common traps, and
form a step-by-step method to create and revise a classic three-act ⊚.
however, there is one very big problem with the ⊧ strategies:
our own natural overwhelming urge to write—write now, and write quickly.
every dramatist is a natural storyteller and what we want to do is invent
characters and make them talk. To slow down and ponder options is com-
pletely counter-intuitive; indeed, for many writers, particularly new writers,
it is actively panic-inducing, because the all-pervasive myth about writing
is that talent means speed and fluency, and speed and fluency automatically
mean brilliance. not always. They often mean recycled clichés or a writer out
of control. all art requires focus and control. Ten per cent inspiration, ninety
per cent perspiration.
12 The 21st-Century Screenplay
⊧ STraTeGy 1: DeFInInG The TaSk aT hanD
it is frighteningly easy to jump in and start writing before you really know
what writing task you have on your hands. Be conscious that your instinct
for survival will push you to rush. resist that instinct. Think: ‘What am i
supposed to be doing here? What is the problem here?’ For example, if you
are asked to submit ideas for a low-budget thriller film, have you defined to
yourself precisely what the demands and potential pitfalls of a low-budget
thriller are? Or, if you’re writing a romantic comedy requiring two enemies
to fall in love, have you planned a series of plausible steps to make that cred-
ible? again, if you feel there is something wrong with your film’s ⊨,
before you start pulling it apart, have you tried to define as precisely as pos-
sible where the problem might be? Or, if you are writing a ⊕, have you
defined to yourself precisely what you need to do in this ⊕ before you
start putting in the ⊘?
⊧ Strategy 1
DeFIne The TaSk aT hanD
Questions to ask:
•
Do I know the task (for example, what film we’re in, the point of this
⊕)?
•
What am I supposed to be doing here?
•
Do I understand the definitions? (For example, do I really understand
any technical jargon being used?)
Use ⊧ strategy 1 to help define to yourself whatever task you
have at hand. Once you are clear about what the task involves, you can use
⊧ strategy 2 to brainstorm a range of ideas from which to choose.
⊧ STraTeGy 2: BraInSTorMInG The BeST
‘real BuT unuSual’ reMeDy
Once ⊧ strategy 1 has provided a range of questions that need
to be asked, you can use ⊧ strategy 2 to brainstorm a range of
‘real but unusual’ answers for filtering later. it is important to realise that
brainstorming, being lateral, is counter-intuitive, particularly in the situation
when it is most needed; that is, a crisis. in a crisis, every vertical-thinking
instinct will (a) be pushing us to jump at the first possible answer, which is
likely to be a cliché and (b) be trying to filter out the more extreme or silly
ideas coming from the lateral imagination. This can mean that potentially
Creativity and general problem solving 13
excellent ideas get thrown out along with the rubbish, so do not let vertical
thinking hijack the process.
⊧ Strategy 2
BraInSTorM The BeST ‘real BuT unuSual’ reMeDy
allow lateral thinking to generate original or unusual ideas to be filtered by
vertical thinking.
Questions to ask:
•
Is what I am creating credible enough?
•
Is what I am creating unusual enough?
•
have I let lateral thinking generate enough ideas?
•
once I have got all the lateral ideas, am I using vertical thinking to filter
out poor ones?
The crucial thing to remember about this ideas-generating stage of the pro-
cess is that any idea, however weak or crazy it may seem, is acceptable because
it can lead by association to something useful. as writers, we are so used to
rejecting substandard ideas immediately that at first this is a difficult process.
it can feel like a rejection of our hard-earned skills of discernment. But in fact
the process is liberating and empowering: instead of finding ideas by default
(‘this one isn’t good enough, that one isn’t good enough, this one is okay, let’s
go with it . . .’) we end up with a range of good ideas from which to choose.
it takes discipline and practice to brainstorm in a crisis, because brain-
storming requires you to ‘daydream’ about a problem rather than take action.
it is rather like being faced with a charging tiger and asking yourself not to
run but to consider the patterns on the tiger’s coat.
To use ⊧ strategy 2 to maximum effect, writers need to stay
calm and give themselves permission to think of silly or outrageous answers
on the way towards exciting and original ideas. One simple way to control
the panic instinct that says brainstorming is a waste of time is to use a stop-
watch to set a time for brainstorming—even ten minutes can produce a fund
of ideas.
DroWnInG In IDeaS?
as you start to practise brainstorming for ideas over the following chapters,
you may well start to feel overwhelmed by the sheer volume of choice you
create for yourself. you may feel that your head is spinning and wonder how
on earth you will ever pick an idea and get started on the writing. This is
14 The 21st-Century Screenplay
particularly likely if you are a writer who hitherto has written without a plan.
Don’t panic. Later i will be explaining strategies you can use to choose the
best ideas. For now, revel in your wonderful imagination. enjoy the fact that
never again will you need to be hostage to the first idea that comes to you
blind, in your panic or enthusiasm, to the fact that it might be clichéd or over
the top. you can be confident of creating a whole range of ideas even under
extreme pressure.
15
Chapter 2
Triggering good ideas fast from
screen models
The TriCk TO geTTing good ideas at speed is to realise that imagina-
tion is reactive. We are used to thinking of the imagination as something
overwhelmingly proactive, a powerful force that takes us over and dominates
our lives. and so it is, once it has got an idea to run with. But if as writers we
look back at how we got the ideas for our original work, almost invariably the
answer is that something in the world around us—an event, a story read in
the newspaper or told by a friend, an anecdote, a thought—provoked in us a
response that demanded a story.
The business of getting an idea for a story was a reaction in response to
a stimulus from the outside world; it did not come from inside us. This pro-
cess is accurately described when we say of writers that something ‘fired’ or
‘caught’ their imagination. it’s also what the ancients were thinking about
when they spoke of the idea of a muse, which was a separate, and petulant,
supernatural entity in charge of ideas.
someone once asked Chekhov how he got ideas for his short stories. he
pushed an ashtray across the table and said: ‘Do you want a story about an
ashtray? you’ll get one tomorrow morning’. Chekhov may or may not have
been irritated with his questioner, but either way this is a description of story
triggering.
To experience how triggers can fire the imagination, try this simple task.
First of all, give yourself ten seconds to think of as many one-sentence film
ideas as possible. The chances are you will be lucky if you have one or two.
now give yourself ten seconds to think of film ideas on the topic ‘earthquake’.
This external stimulus will make it much easier to make connections and
produce ideas. Finally, give yourself ten seconds to think of film ideas that
combine ‘earthquake’ with another stimulus, say, a ⊙ like ‘self-esteem’, or
a simple ⊗ model like a Cinderella story. you will find that the extra con-
nections make it surprisingly easy to think of ideas (although the quality of
many will be poor).
This associational activity is what happens naturally in the creative
15
16 The 21st-Century Screenplay
pro cess. as we screen professionals rarely have time to wait for the great
idea to come to us, we can artificially create the natural stimulus/reaction
process ourselves, just as Chekhov did, by using vertical thinking to pick a
stimulus that we then run past our lateral imagination so as to trigger asso-
ciations and unusual connections. We can catch our own imagination and be
our own muse.
This chapter and the next deal with using ⊧ strategies 1 and
2 in combination with a variety of story triggers to kick-start lateral thinking
and get a wealth of story ideas at speed for three-act scripts. They also intro-
duce ⊧ strategy 3, which is about pinpointing the components of
a specific genre, and ⊧ strategy 4, which shows how to get more
ideas by consciously making links between very different things. This chapter
looks at using screen models (genre) to trigger ⊗ ideas. The next chapter
looks at other triggers, including fairytale, myth and fable, real-life events,
characters, themes, events and random combinations of ideas.
Isn’t a model a fast track to cliché?
Before we look at models we need to ask the obvious question: why use them?
isn’t a model (particularly something like genre) a fast track to cliché? Why,
in a search for the new and unusual, are we returning to formats that some
would say have been done to death?
Unfortunately, it is a sad fact of writing life that any model, after a while,
can produce or mask clichés. But this is not the fault of the model. it is because
the writer has unconsciously let vertical thinking take over and pre-empt lat-
eral imagination. models are successful patterns that audiences enjoy and, in
some cases, have been enjoying for thousands of years. The chances are that
audiences will like them again, as long as lateral thinking is brought into play
to push the boundaries and give the format a new and original slant. Hamlet
was a commercially commissioned piece of formula writing, written within
the very rigid format of revenge tragedy, a genre akin to the modern-day
mafia or gangster movie, full of murder and betrayal. as usual, shakespeare
transcended formula and stereotypical characterisation. The trick for writ-
ers is to avoid being kidnapped by vertical thinking and pushed into a weak
rehash of the pattern.
Writing to a screen model
screenwriters are so often asked to write to models that it makes sense to
deal with that approach first. Television series and serials, and nowadays
online drama serials, are the most obvious examples of writing to models,
Triggering good ideas fast from screen models 17
but writing feature films often requires writing to a model or genre. Typical
writing-to-model tasks would be the following:
1 ideas for a low-budget romance (feature)
2 the premise for a 50-minute television drama series
3 ideas for a package of three science fiction telemovies for the teen
market
4 ideas for an online comedy serial
The way to get lots of ideas for models, as we might expect, is to know how
and when to use lateral and vertical thinking. For experienced writers the
hardest part will be to switch vertical thinking off after it has defined the
requirements of the model, so that it is not allowed to generate ideas but only
to choose them after lateral brainstorming. For newer writers, the temptation
will be to sidestep the vertical task of defining the model’s requirements and
jump straight into lateral brainstorming.
The two-pronged approach can be summed up quite simply: define the
model, then give yourself permission to brainstorm it freely and uncritically
through a variety of triggers. keep all the ideas so that later, when you are
completely sure you have brainstormed enough, you can select the best, but
vary the story trigger. The same trigger, used over and over again, is likely to
be hijacked by vertical thinking, so that you think you are brainstorming but
in fact you are only producing clichés and ideas that you had the last time
you used the trigger (this is typically what is happening when TV storyliners
go into burn-out).
give yourself as much time as possible to work on this vital ideas part
of the project. remember, a good idea virtually writes itself. if you choose
a poor idea, you will be spending a huge amount of time trying to make it
sparkle.
rejecting the first idea
This stage of the process is not about getting complete plots for films. it is
about getting a wealth of one-sentence story ideas/fragments from which
you can choose later. moving into plotting too early can pre-empt the crea-
tive process. it is frighteningly easy to commit to a poor idea just because it
was the first one that came to mind. as we’ve seen, the first idea is usually a
derivative one springing from the vertical imagination. instant, second-rate
ideas are one of the great traps of vertical thinking and one of the great dan-
gers facing experienced writers whose craft skills are extensively developed
and who, as a consequence, can so easily drop into automatic pilot. matters
of detailed plotting come later.
18 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Getting ideas for a film
as an example of how this works, let’s look at the low-budget romance fea-
ture film. as we’ve seen, getting good ideas is all about finding useful triggers
for lateral thinking. a model of the simplest kind, like the words ‘low-budget
feature romance’, can sometimes act as a good trigger in itself. so this is where
to start. remember, all you are looking for at this stage are one-sentence
ideas. keep to one sentence because if you start to ⊗ a whole story you will
commit to it, thereby shutting out a whole range of other potential stories.
STeP 1
reminding yourself that finding the right idea is going to take some time,
relax and apply ⊧ strategy 1: Define the task at hand (see p. 12)
so that you can brainstorm ideas. make sure you know what the task is. While
the task might seem obvious, consciously define it for yourself because that
precision helps vertical thinking to keep you unpanicked.
here the task is ‘to think of ideas for a low-budget feature romance’. you
will immediately notice that business issues are present, but don’t allow them
to inhibit the next stage of the process, which is brainstorming. Put them
aside for later or, even better, jot down a memo on a separate piece of paper.
STeP 2
having pinpointed the task, utilise ⊧ strategy 2: Brainstorm the
best ‘real but unusual’ remedy (see p. 13) to come up with as many one-
sentence ideas for a feature romance as possible. ask yourself whether what
you are plotting is unusual enough. have you let lateral thinking generate
enough ideas? are you letting vertical considerations—such as business
issues or quality—limit you?
Before brainstorming, consciously shed preconceptions about what a
romance should be. give yourself permission to be flippant, grim, ironic—
anything, so long as you keep yourself open to all ideas. also, consciously
shed anxieties about quality or your inner critic may paralyse you. Think
quantity not quality. Quality issues come later. Try for twenty one-sentence
ideas, letting your imagination bounce off each. here are a few random, even
ridiculous, ideas on the topic of a ‘real but unusual’ romance.
1 a postal worker falls in love with a letter, which could be developed to
a postal worker falling for the addressee, or for the sender (because this
person has beautiful handwriting or the letter smells engaging) or for a
person mistaken for the sender.
2 an elephant falls for an ant, which takes up the idea of opposites
Triggering good ideas fast from screen models 19
or unlikely people attracting each other, such as the power-broker
falling for a powerless person, an old person falling for a younger
person, people of different races becoming attracted, the romeo and
Juliet idea.
3 a divorced couple falls in love again (used in It’s Complicated).
4 Two murderers fall in love.
5 a person falls in love with their disease, which could be developed
to a person who functions by thinking of themselves as weak or
victimised finding strength through falling in love with someone who
challenges that approach.
STeP 3
Write all these ideas down, even if you hate them. sometimes they will later
lead you to better ideas elsewhere.
STeP 4
get other triggers from the model. Why? Because, while a limited model
like ‘romance feature’ can sometimes trigger excellent ideas, usually stress
will cut in and make us switch into vertical thinking before our lateral
imagination has had a chance to work properly. The result is limited, cli-
chéd ideas.
To help yourself find a range of other triggers, you can use Develop-
ment strategy 1. For example, having defined the task as ‘getting ideas for a
feature romance’, you can define it more precisely by asking ‘What is a fea-
ture romance?’ in other words, what are the story components of a feature
romance? Logical vertical thinking will give us answers like these:
•
setting (place and era)
•
personal details of lovers (age, class, occupation etc.)
•
the way lovers meet
•
non-human barriers to lovers (social, health, misunderstandings,
distance etc.)
•
rivals to lovers
•
⊥—happy or sad?
•
point of view (one or other of the lovers, a friend, a parent, a rival etc.)
each of these character and ⊗ components can be run past the lateral
imagination as a trigger for brainstorming. Let’s look at an example. We will
take the idea of a ‘real but unusual’ setting for a feature romance. switching
to lateral thinking, we might get the following examples:
20 The 21st-Century Screenplay
•
mars, outer space, spaceship, flying saucer
•
zoo—lovers as animals, actually or symbolically?
•
place of work—office, factory, bakery, garage, car yard, ferry depot,
houses in the same street, chemistry lab, cancer ward, alcoholics
anonymous meeting, deathbed, radioactive dump, school, university,
gardens, parks, racing stables
•
building site, studio, garbage dump, recycling facility, symphony
orchestra, theatre, cinema, roller-skating rink, sports field, restaurant,
hotel, bank
•
desert island, emotional island of some sort, railway station (when
both parties are stranded and/or emotionally isolated)
•
on the internet—two people in different towns or countries
•
medieval era or some other period in history, or a museum where
both are enthusiasts for a particular era
•
a cult setting of some kind, perhaps a religious cult setting (but
period might be too expensive)
•
fantasy land, fairy land, psychiatric hospital, beauty parlour
•
big house—one lover rich, the other a servant
•
small country town, big country town, big city, small rural pocket in
big city
•
cemetery, funeral parlour, shoe store, clothes store, shopping centre
(he’s the butcher and she’s the newsagent)
•
old people’s home, children’s playgroup, children’s sports club
•
health farm, resort, people out of context (will love last?)
•
archaeological dig or the jungle (or the city as jungle)—beware
budget
•
a swamp, the desert, after a plane crash at the south Pole
•
parrots in love
already, the range of ideas has opened up enormously. The ideas show every-
thing from the mundane (lovers meeting at a resort) to the apparently bizarre
(parrots in love). ⊮ is important to realise that without the mass of other
ideas surrounding it, ‘lovers meeting at a resort’ might not have seemed so
weak. as for ‘parrots in love’, while it looks out of place here, it could look
quite respectable as an idea for an animated children’s film. also, while of
itself it seems unpromising, it could be the feeder idea for another concept.
This could be a comedy romance about two scientists fighting to become the
first to document the mating habits of a rare parrot. staying open to tragedy
permits ideas like love in a cancer ward, which lifts the topic into a whole
new range of emotions.
Triggering good ideas fast from screen models 21
you can now go on to brainstorm each of the components. This will give
you a huge range of ideas.
STeP 5
When you feel you have enough ideas from all of your triggers, take your
favourite six or so and hand them back to your vertical imagination for a
‘business issues’ check. This is another way of defining the task. it requires
you to define the business components your idea needs to have to be genu-
inely a ‘low-budget feature romance’.
•
low budget, so must not require expensive locations, special effects
etc.
•
must not be period because of the expense
•
must not be written with expensive actors in mind
•
is it my producer’s kind of product (if a producer is attached at this
stage)?
•
is it to be aimed at a certain demographic? should i choose?
•
are there any co-production issues that might affect ingredients of the
story (location, actors etc.)?
if a producer is already involved in the project, that person will probably
appreciate receiving and perhaps contributing to this list. Lists like these are
very helpful in helping the collaboration process run smoothly because they
ensure that everybody knows what the writer is supposed to be doing.
Genre and audience expectations
now that you have six or so story ideas, you need to double-check that you
know ‘what film we’re in’ so that you can give the audience the best possible
version of the model it expects. in this instance, the model is a genre. Before
you start making any detailed plans about a film in a particular genre, take a
moment to identify elements and audience expectations of that genre. This
will give you further details about ⊗ and characterisation requirements.
it will also remind you of the exact ways in which the script needs to grab
the emotions and intellect of the audience; that a thriller must be extremely
thrilling, and that a spy story must be full of suspense and a ‘whodunit’ must
keep us guessing. genre is a promise to the audience, and you must fulfil that
promise in a real but unusual way.
This might all seem very obvious. in fact pressure makes it very easy to
rush into creating specifics of storyline while forgetting the core requirements
of the genre or, more precisely, what experience the audience is looking for
when they come to this sort of film. The sort of questions that have to be
22 The 21st-Century Screenplay
asked, quite cold-bloodedly, are things like: ‘Before i go any further, is my
film actually exciting enough for a thriller?’ or ‘Before i commit to this who-
dunit, does it really have enough twists and turns?’ such things can never be
assumed.
all of this can be aided by a simple device, ⊧ strategy 3.
⊧ Strategy 3: The genre equation
⊧ strategy 3 is actually a ⊧ of the ‘real but unusual’
rule that we’ve seen is a useful screenwriter’s motto. it is the first develop-
ment strategy to have a highly specific function, and its function is to make
sure that the writer knows enough about the demands, clichés and nuances
of any chosen genre to recreate it in a powerfully original way that will ful-
fil—and hopefully exceed—the audience’s expectations. Because it focuses
on the scenario that could develop from the idea, it shifts the idea closer
towards creation of a complete story with a proper structure. While it is still
too early at this stage to start close plotting any of the ideas, it is useful to
begin considering the general demands of a genre. Doing so helps filter out
inappropriate ideas and shift more promising ideas to the top of the pile. it
is much better to pinpoint the demands of genre before close plotting one
particular story because choosing a story means you have emotionally com-
mitted to it. This could blind you to its inadequacy as a vehicle for the genre
you have to write in.
But what if the writer wants to play games with the audience’s genre
expectations? This certainly can be done but, just as we need to understand
the form before we copy it, we must also understand the form before we play
tricks with it. ⊧ strategy 3 is actually a kind of equation: genre =
pattern + relevant emotion + real + unusual
⊧ Strategy 3
The Genre eQuaTIon
Identify the pattern or genre you are writing in, remembering ‘the genre
equation’ which is:
genre = pattern + relevant emotion + real + unusual
Questions to ask:
•
am I including events and characters that will provoke high levels of
the right emotion (for example, fear, amusement, suspense)?
•
have I identified all the components of the pattern?
Triggering good ideas fast from screen models 23
•
What ⊗ and character points must I have for the audience to identify
this as the chosen pattern?
•
have I identified the danger areas of the genre (for example, cliché,
credibility gaps)?
•
have I run ⊧ Strategy 2 to make sure I have got a highly
unusual but credible version of the pattern?
The components of a genre
⊧ strategy 3 asks us to pinpoint the components of a genre. how
can we do that? There is an old comedy writer’s rule that runs ‘silly plus real
is funny, but silly plus silly is stupid’. For example, in a successful comedy like
Muriel’s Wedding a plain girl agrees to a loveless arranged marriage (credibly
‘real’, vertical thinking) for the comically ridiculous reason that she is desper-
ate to have a white wedding (‘unusual’, silly lateral thinking). The result is a
premise that is engagingly funny. But if Muriel’s Wedding had been about a
girl who thinks, in a comically ridiculous way, that she’s from the planet Zong
and, also in a comically ridiculous way, is desperate for a white wedding, the
result would have been stupid. This sound advice is another way of saying
that if you remove vertical thinking from the equation, your comedy goes
‘over the top’. There is also the obvious point that if you remove lateral think-
ing, the ‘unusual’ component of the comedy, all you will have is a completely
vertical equation of ‘real plus real’, which is not funny at all.
Just as we can describe comedy films as being ‘silly plus real’, we can also
define thrillers as ‘exciting plus real’, and tragedies as ‘deeply sad plus real’. That
gives us the emotion we want to arouse in our audience, ⊮ also reminds us
that an overdose of the relevant emotion will wreck any film; ‘deeply sad plus
deeply sad’ will be over the top. The ‘real’ must always be there.
if we add to this equation the basic pattern of the specific genre (the pat-
tern of a spy film, for example, is ‘what spies do’, and the pattern of a love
story is that ‘people fall in love’), we have a quick way to prove that our film
is reaching the audience via the emotions and story patterns associated with
that genre. Or alternatively, that it is playing games with story patterns and
emotions (as in Pulp Fiction, which adds comedy and the mundane to the
normal gangster movie pattern of fear, excitement and underworld atmos-
phere). Playing games with genre is of course entirely permissible; in fact it is
the premise behind all film spoofs and many cult films.
We can even create a table to remind us of this (see Figure 2.1). Pattern
components and credibility are handled by vertical thinking and emotion
and originality are handled by lateral thinking.
24 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Pattern components + emotion + credibility +
Genre
originality
Comedy Pattern components + silliness + real + unusual
Thriller Pattern components + fear + real + unusual
Action story Pattern components + excitement + real + unusual
Love story Pattern components + romance + real + unusual
Tragedy Pattern components + pain + real + unusual
Figure 2.1 Breaking down genres into tasks
Using the method shown in Figure 2.1, you could create a chart for yourself
that identified the basic elements that you have to include in your film—then
use it as a brainstorming tool. if, for example, you are planning a war film,
jot down the elements you have to include (particular pattern, plus relevant
emotion etc.) and note down ideas for them as shown in Figure 2.2.
War story Pattern Emotion Real Unusual
(normal (Fear, dread,
components triumph,
of war story) anger,
sorrow,
desire for
revenge etc.)
Historical Done from Many Research Possibilities:
war or one side or different (into usual war,
invented both sides? instances historical unusual
war? Involving of all the events if protagonists,
Civil war? a mission? emotions, applicable, unusual
Internal, Explaining delivered into robotics quest,
mental war? strategy? suspensefully. or space unusual
War with Include travel etc.) perspective
invaders battle scenes, on events
from space? tender (non-
scenes, combatant?)
thoughtful Machine?
scenes, Use an
scenes interesting
explaining ⊚
cause of structure like
⊖ etc. flashback?
Message?
Structure?
Figure 2.2 Genre table for a war movie
Triggering good ideas fast from screen models 25
expect clichés and plan to tackle them
⊧ strategy 3 can also help you with clichés. every genre con-
tains its own clichés and pitfalls. rather than ignore the possibility of these
occurring in your script, expect them to appear and ready yourself to remove
them: forewarned is forearmed. For example, if you are writing a science fic-
tion movie, take a few moments to note down what was wrong with the bad
science fiction movies you have seen. as you proceed with the script, check
from time to time that you haven’t inserted clichés or fallen into the pitfalls
because this is an occupational hazard. When you find a cliché, either put a
new spin on it or dump it. When you’re in a pitfall, define it and brainstorm
yourself out of it.
Chapter 3
Triggering good ideas fast from
other models
Combining genres
an interesting way to avoid cliché and find new and interesting patterns is
to combine genres. This approach can produce a wealth of interesting ideas.
it is dealt with at length in ken Dancyger and Jeff rush’s absorbing book,
Alternative Scriptwriting (1995), but the theory in essence is to brainstorm
the ⊗ possibilities of combining different genres (for example, combining a
gangster film with a war story, or combining a love story with a spy film) and
see what interesting ⊗ combinations suggest themselves. interesting struc-
tural combinations might also suggest themselves as a result of the process,
as for example in the case of The English Patient, which uses flashbacks to tell
its combination of love and war stories.
Inventing genres
Brainstorming of the kind demonstrated in Chapter 2 with the low-budget
feature can be used equally well with other genres. in fact an interesting
brainstorming exercise is to think up new genres, then use them as triggers.
For example, you might brainstorm literal and figurative treatments of the
‘buried treasure’ movie, the ‘other woman’ movie, the ‘pride before a fall’
movie or the samson movie (hero destroyed by passion gets revenge), and
so on. Be careful not to be drawn into close plotting of one or two ideas. The
purpose is still to generate as many ideas as possible.
Getting good ideas fast from fairytale, myth and
fable
stories that have engaged audiences for hundreds or thousands of years make
excellent models. myths, fairytales and fables are actually ready-made tem-
plates and easier to use than genres because not only do they specify the
⊛, supporting characters and details of scenario, they also possess
a very sound, traditional three-act ⊚ structure. While, to modern
minds, using an existing story might seem like a form of plagiarism, in
26
Triggering good ideas fast from other models 27
fact inventing stories from scratch is a relatively recent idea, and for writ-
ers before, after and including shakespeare, using an existing story was the
norm, the issue being how the story was made relevant to modern times.
The screen industry continues this tradition to its great profit. One very
dominant fairytale, particularly in mainstream cinema, is ‘Cinderella’, which
appears in everything from Pretty Woman to The Killing Fields to Slumdog
Millionaire (with the television show Who Wants to be a Millionaire? playing
the part of fairy godmother).
Four WayS oF GeTTInG STory IDeaS FroM ‘CInDerella’
MeThoD 1: CInDerella aS . . .
Think ‘Cinderella as . . .’ then insert a social role, type, thing, even a place.
For example: Cinderella as . . . astronaut, pessimist, painting, mountain vil-
lage etc.
MeThoD 2: one-SenTenCe ⊗ TeMPlaTe
Create a ⊗ template, underline its changeable components, then brainstorm
each component to get new storylines: for example, ‘Likeable, oppressed
person encounters fairy godmother figure whose actions help them achieve
their greatest wish.’ Then, for example, you could brainstorm twenty different
kinds of ‘greatest wish’.
MeThoD 3: SuMMarISInG ParT oF The aCTIon
Create a template that summarises a striking part of the action, then brain-
storm the changeable components of that template. For example: ‘magic
turned a poor servant into a glamorous, wealthy person for a short time, after
which things returned to normal.’ Try swapping ‘magic’ for, say, ‘technology’,
‘natural disaster’ or ‘the government’ etc.
MeThoD 4: The TWIST ⊥
reverse or significantly change the fairytale’s ⊥; for example, marriage
to the prince becomes another form of slavery. To find a good twist ⊥,
define the underlying assumptions of the fairytale and question them.
FaIryTaleS aS TeMPlaTeS For ThrIllerS
While ‘Cinderella’ is probably the most common fairytale used in the film
industry, others are evident, most often as thriller templates. For example,
‘Little red riding hood’ is the prototype villain-in-disguise story (for exam-
ple, Psycho). ‘The Three Little Pigs’ is the prototype serial killer film (Home
26
28 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Alone is a comic inversion) and ‘Jack and the Beanstalk’ is the prototype
spy and heist story (for example, Being John Malkovich). To get ideas for a
thriller, brainstorm ‘real but unusual’ versions via the four methods used
with ‘Cinderella’.
MyTh, FaBle anD lITeraTure
The hero’S journey
it is impossible to talk about the use of myth in film without mentioning
Christopher Vogler’s brilliant and seminal book The Writer’s Journey (1992).
Vogler takes the ancient and very pervasive myth of the ‘hero of a thousand
faces’ (in which the hero has to go into another dangerous world to save
the tribe and achieve personal salvation) and demonstrates how its scenario,
its ⊛ and its range of compelling archetypes can be identified in
modern screenplays of all kinds, from action movies to subtle psychological
dramas, as well as being used as a template for new screenplays. The book is
compulsory reading, but to summarise:
•
The hero’s journey is a circular one, starting and ⊥ at home with
a trip to a special world in the ⊦.
•
On the way, the hero meets a range of people, good and bad, who are
archetypes; that is, they stand for typical human types or roles.
The most frequently appearing archetypes are:
•
mentor (a wise old man or woman)
•
threshold guardian (a fierce person guarding the entrance to the
special world)
•
herald (a person who introduces the hero to the quest)
•
shape shifter (a person who keeps changing their role)
•
shadow (the hero’s main enemy—a reverse image of the hero)
•
trickster (sometimes a helper, sometimes a hindrance)
SuMMary oF The hero’S journey ⊗
The hero receives a summons to adventure, but is reluctant to go into the
special world. events force the hero to go, taking a magic talisman given by
a mentor or teacher. The hero defeats the threshold guardian at the first door
into the special world, and goes through. The hero encounters new challenges,
new friends and new enemies, eventually passing through the second door,
which leads to the innermost cave and the great ordeal, in which the hero
is face to face with death. The hero gets the treasure and starts back for the
normal world, passing through a third door and experiencing a resurrection.
Triggering good ideas fast from other models 29
There is a final great battle and the hero experiences victory, returning with
the treasure to the normal world.
The huge advantage of this model is that it provides not only a traditional
structure and a specific scenario, but a range of strongly defined characters
with pressing needs and clear roles to play in the progress of the ⊛.
This not only ensures that the characters have the makings of an interesting
psychology, but also that each character acts to impel the ⊛ for-
ward in the ⊗. This really is character-driven drama!
Brainstorm different versions of the actual journey (including metaphori-
cal ones, such as illness as a journey), the archetypes and the steps in the
journey.
uSInG MyThS, FaBleS anD lITeraTure
myths, fables, and literary works are excellent triggers. For example, the
icarus story could be summarised and brainstormed as: ‘someone too vain
to heed warnings against a strong power is destroyed’. ancient myths make
good models for gangster and war stories. arthurian legends are good for
lawyer/detective/adventure/western movies. Fables and parable are ideal
because they provide a scenario with a message. ancient love stories like
‘Orpheus and eurydice’ can be templates, as, perennially, can Romeo and
Juliet and indeed all of shakespeare’s plays. (if this seems like plagiarism,
remember that shakespeare and his colleagues were also guilty of it and did
it all the time. shakespeare’s Merchant of Venice is his answer to a very similar
play by Christopher marlowe called The Jew of Malta. The Jew of Malta was
doing such good business at a rival theatre that shakespeare was told to write
something similar.) The classic comedies of molière and Ben Jonson provide
excellent triggers for comedy.
reDeMPTIon anD The PIlGrIM’S ProGreSS
it is said that the Us pilgrim fathers took two books with them from Ply-
mouth: the Bible, and John Bunyan’s allegorical novel, The Pilgrim’s Progress,
in which the ⊛, who stands for all humanity (at least, all non-
conformist Protestant humanity), is changed for the better by experience,
successfully achieving his goal (heaven) through ordeal. Perfectibility,
an achievable goal and growth by self-discipline to redemption is deeply
embedded in Us culture, including its films. it is even present in a movie like
Pulp Fiction. so pervasive is it that Us scriptwriting theories often present
growth and redemption in the ⊛ as the inevitable subject-matter
of a film. however, many cultures, in response to the socio-political realities
30 The 21st-Century Screenplay
in their part of the world, just don’t believe in humanity as restricted only by
its inner failings. They are fatalistic and pessimistic, and their films actively
pursue more depressing ⊛’s journeys, with little learnt or change-
able, which is an entirely valid alternative response. neither optimism nor
redemption is obligatory. They are merely options.
⊧ Strategy 4: Finding non-⊚
triggers
almost anything can act to trigger lateral thinking—even a road sign reading
WrOng Way. so strong is our ability to find patterns that the results of com-
bining random words together to find stories can seem eerily predestined.
Try brainstorming anecdotes, newspaper snippets, cryptic headlines, job
ads, personal ads, street names, names in a telephone directory, proverbs,
common phrases or billboards and the question ‘what if . . .?’. Brainstorm
interesting character types from occupation or social role. Brainstorm char-
acters defined by emotional state; predicament; flaws; ambition; one of the
‘seven deadly sins’; or astrological signs. Brainstorm weddings, funerals,
journeys, holidays, war, accidents, divorce, departures, a mission etc. Photo-
graphs, music, art works and other sensory stimuli are good triggers, as are
themes like poverty, parenthood, loss, ambition, the insanity of war etc. Try
throwing disparate ideas together and waiting for a pattern to form. For
instance, throw ‘love story’ together with a word picked at random from a
dictionary; for example, love story/gravity, love story/intrusion, love story/
expatriate. ⊧ strategy 4 will remind you what to ask.
⊧ Strategy 4
FInD non-⊚ TrIGGerS
Throw disparate ideas together and wait for a pattern to form.
Questions to ask:
•
Could I find a better idea by trying for more combinations or via
another method; for example, finding a trigger in a newspaper headline
or through combining random words in a dictionary?
•
are the new ideas I get this way ‘real plus unusual’?
31
Chapter 4
What film are we in?
a FiLm is a multi-million-dollar venture. While nobody would start pour-
ing the foundations for a multi-million-dollar building without detailed
plans, scripts are often set in concrete before those creating them have
decided precisely what they want to create.
Of course, many very experienced screenwriters say they write without a
plan. however, in my experience, these people don’t for a second mean they
sit down and start writing immediately the initial idea comes to them, not
stopping until they finish the first draft (although very occasionally that does
happen). On the contrary, when you ask them what preparation they did,
normally you will find that they were profoundly and passionately immersed
in the project long before they started writing (in other words, their plans
were mental). you will also usually find that they rewrite extensively as they
go. most importantly, you will usually also find that they possess enormous
experience, high skill levels and an awe-inspiring combination of objectivity
and mental toughness that permits them to get to the end of one draft then
almost instantly junk it and start all over again. For experienced screenwrit-
ers, starting without a plan often boils down to starting without being sure of
the details of the ⊥ or how they will get to the ⊥. guillermo arriaga
is like this. Often cited as a purely intuitive writer, he is actually a master-
craftsman who, far from dashing off his scripts, starts off with a lot of ideas
in his head and meticulously reworks and condenses as he goes. although
he commences writing with plotlines incompletely formed, he states that by
page ten he knows ‘what the story is’ (professional writer’s shorthand for
knowing a great deal about the film). significantly, his daily writing pro cess
involves constant and ruthless rewriting. as for intuition, decision-making
expert herbert simon’s observation that ‘intuition is analytical thinking fro-
zen into habit and into the capacity for rapid response through recognition
of familiar kinds of situations’ is appropriate here. Which is to say that we
shouldn’t be at all surprised that experienced writers like arriaga don’t have
to plan as much as newer writers and can modify on the run: they’ve been
31
32 The 21st-Century Screenplay
doing it for years. arriaga was writing non-linear novels long before he wrote
Amores Perros. The complicated narratives used by Paul haggis in Crash and
stephen gaghan in Traffic sprang from years of experience.
inevitably, your script will change in the writing, but however tempting
it is to dash straight from idea to writing scenes, avoid it. it’s worryingly easy
even for very experienced writers to commit to a ⊗ that does not properly
transmit the strengths of the idea or the message they are trying to get across.
Once you have taken a path it is very hard to turn back, and by taking one
path you have lost the opportunity to take many others. Because you are a
good writer, your weak ⊗ will probably be quite good, but not the best you
are capable of. Then, tragically, because it’s very hard to throw away a draft,
the inadequate ⊗ is there to stay. For everyone involved in developing the
script, the shaky, inappropriate ⊗ becomes what the film is, and keeping
it intact becomes a point of honour, a matter of principle and an expres-
sion of artistic integrity. a new ⊗, even though it would transmit the ideas
and story material infinitely better and result in an altogether better film,
becomes unthinkable. Occasionally, the script will get made and be damned
with faint praise. more often it will lurch through the early stages of develop-
ment and end up in a bottom drawer, a huge waste of time, money and talent.
Don’t drift into months or years of effort on writing that is less than your
best. instead, stop, take stock and spend some time pinpointing the inherent
strengths of the idea and working out what you are trying to say through
your film. in film industry jargon, this process is known as establishing ‘what
film we’re in’.
What can go wrong and how to prevent it
PITCh FeVer
One of the most common places for a discrepancy to creep in between idea
and ⊗ is before even a word of the script has been written; that is, in the
creation of the pitch. a pitch is a hymn of praise to a script invented to
attract finance. These days, a pitch is often mandatory at a very early stage
of a script’s ⊧; indeed, sometimes (and worryingly) ⊧
finance is even decided at public pitching competitions.
While a pitch is supposed to be a statement of intent about an unfinished
or even unwritten script, what often happens is that, bizarrely, somewhere
along the line intention becomes taken as achievement. The script is not going
to become a brilliant thriller: it already is. alas, persistently asserting that
your script is a riveting, heart-stopping and strikingly original thriller about
industrial espionage does not make it so—but this is exactly what people do.
What film are we in? 33
everyone involved starts to believe their own publicity. hard questions are
never asked about the script, with the result that in a surprising number of
cases the finished script bears little relation to the high-powered pitch (even
in basic matters like ⊗) but the team on the film are blind to this. i call this
pitch fever. here is an example (exaggerated for ease of understanding) of
how a pitch can differ from the real film (both have been invented by me).
PITCh For FInDInG BeCky, a FeaTure FIlM
annie Miller’s got everything: good looks, brains, a top job as a
journalist on a top paper. Then suddenly everything changes. out of
the blue arrives Becky. Tough and streetwise, Becky’s nineteen, on
the run, and desperate to keep the three-year-old girl she calls her
sister. She trusts nobody—and nobody had better trust her. as annie
struggles to gain Becky’s trust, she starts to find out things that shake
her bright and privileged world. When she finally discovers Becky’s
terrible secret, she’s thrown into a dark world of pain and vice she
could never have imagined. In a heart-stopping race against time,
annie battles to save the girl whom, but for the grace of God, she
might have been. a powerful and moving story about two women,
chance, and unthinkable evil.
This, for all its prose clichés, promises an exciting, intricately plotted psycho-
logical thriller with some good action sequences. however, the script that
follows might well go something like this.
SynoPSIS oF WhaT aCTually haPPenS In FInDInG BeCky
open on buzzing alarm and a hand turning it off. It’s annie, a nice,
pretty young journalist. We see her at work. We see her having a
drink with friends after work. We see her shopping and joking with
a jolly ⊦-aged male delicatessen owner who clearly knows
and likes her. She spends the evening watching TV and eating ice
cream out of a tub. Domestic incidents occur including annie at a
launderette, annie washing her face and staring in a mirror, annie
not having anything to wear etc.
annie has a day off. She comes out of her house and finds a
baby’s necklace in the gutter. She looks everywhere for the child
who owns it and finds the child and her mother, Becky, in a nearby
park. Becky is a very young single parent with no-one to turn to.
The child has lost their house keys.
The two women look everywhere for the keys and find them.
In the course of the hunt they get to know each other. Becky tells
34 The 21st-Century Screenplay
annie about her shocking history of incest. It turns out that Becky
always loved writing and wants to be a journalist.
The child’s drug-addict father turns up. he wants money and is
threatening. The two women run away with the child. They spend
the whole day hiding in a variety of interesting/funny/weird places,
meeting many interesting people, escaping cleverly and with witty
⊘. Finally, at night they hide in a visually interesting place
such as a deserted factory with many ladders and lift shafts. There
is a hunt ⊕. The child cries out for its father, who finds them.
annie wrestles him to the ground, finding a strength she never knew
she had. The father is killed horribly by piece of factory equipment.
Cut to Becky, rehabilitated and living with annie, getting her first
newspaper story published.
This is not depicting the pitch at all. it is not even a story, it is two women
running around. Worryingly, dressed up with punchy ⊘ and fast-
paced action sequences from a good writer, this implausible, cliché-ridden
collection of episodes will at first sight look much better than it is. People
involved with the script, already believing it to be what the pitch says it is,
will keep pointing out the wonderful ⊘ (and it will be wonderful) and
that great bit where Becky king-hits the sumo wrestler (which will indeed
be good). however, the problem in trying to make it better is that everyone
on the film is hearing the pitch and no-one, in any real sense, is reading the
script.
The rewrites that have been done (and often there will be many) will be
addressing details such as whether the father drowned or was crushed, not
tackling the overarching problem; namely, that the script opens with a string
of clichés, then becomes not a rising, suspenseful or even plausible story
dealing with the strong human issues promised by the pitch but, well—two
women running around. is annie struggling to gain Becky’s trust? no, Becky
almost instantly volunteers the information about incest to annie, a com-
plete stranger, the act either of someone mentally unbalanced or operating a
con. ‘Dark world of pain and vice?’ no. ‘heart-stopping race against time?’
no. ‘Chance and unthinkable evil?’ no: two women running around.
any writer whose talent can shine through a terrible storyline like Finding
Becky is probably, with a better ⊗, capable of excellence. The waste of a slab
of their writing life on things like Finding Becky is saddening. Unfortunately,
when a film like this gets to the screen the audience will instantly see its
weaknesses and the film will fail—to the surprise of those who made it and
felt only the strength of the idea.
What film are we in? 35
The ⊗ IS noT holy
The problem with Finding Becky is that it has the wrong ⊗, a ⊗ probably
launched into with a lot of passion, a fair degree of panic (possibly even dur-
ing an actual pitch competition) and certainly insufficient thought.
Passion is a vital requirement for a career in the film industry; however,
art is about control and focus—about getting the passion in your head and
heart actually onto the page. With a film project that you love, it’s all too easy
to get swept along by hope and enthusiasm without properly understanding
what the film is really about, thus what your ⊗ needs to contain. The ⊗
serves the ideas. The ⊗ is not holy. What is holy and inviolate is the idea. if
the ⊗ does not properly service the idea, the ⊗ must be changed.
GeTTInG SWePT aWay
Weak film adaptations of books often happen because those creating the
script love the novel so much that they invest a bald and meandering screen-
play adaptation with all the richness they recall from the novel. soon, the
faulty ⊗ becomes sacrosanct (for more about issues surrounding adapta-
tion, see pp. 155–8).
The same thing can occur with a writer who launches prematurely into
writing in the grip of a passionately felt idea. The writer can’t pick the weak
⊗ because the act of reading the script rekindles the powerful emotions
that provided the idea in the first place. Once again, the weak ⊗ has become
the project.
By all means defend your project, but don’t defend a pile of a4 paper with
your project’s name on it. Don’t defend something just because it’s there.
Strategies that help
MInD MaP
To understand why an idea resonates with you so passionately you need to
isolate the idea’s main themes and the story ideas it’s giving you, then brain-
storm connections. Linda seger calls this clustering and regards it as a way
of increasing the commercial viability of the script by finding the universal
themes. in Lateral Thinking, edward de Bono calls it identifying the domi-
nant idea, and regards the notion of making connections from it as a way of
ceasing to be dominated by it or by the mental clichés it calls up. Use a mind
map as a starting point for clustering; that is, to articulate as many different
reasons as possible why the idea might have appealed to you. These might
surprise you. For example, you might find the idea compelling because it
threatens you.
36 The 21st-Century Screenplay
here is a mind map on the ⊙ of poverty.
Jack and the
Beanstalk (a
child caught way out), Icarus,
in cycle of Cinderella
poverty
child abuse
poverty
poverty-
of ideas
related
crimes homeless
Poverty
people
poverty
of spirit
single
government’s
parents
role in
starving
poverty
elderly
Figure 4.1 Mind map on the ⊙ of poverty
hoW To CreaTe a MInD MaP
Brainstorm associations from each of the ideas thrown up in the process. For
example, a ⊙ of war might suggest rivalry, hence images of chess or battle
which might form symbols, or the bases for scenes. Chess pieces might sug-
gest plots for two warring generals, or the suffering of the foot soldiers. List the
emotions that the ideas or images might create. Let these trigger more symbols
and images. expect some clichés to appear—just ignore them. you might not
fully understand your attraction to the idea until later in the writing.
The SPark
To avoid being kidnapped by the pitch; indeed, even before you think about
inventing the pitch, it’s sensible to find what i call the spark. The spark is what
makes your film irresistible—what will make people go out on a wet monday
night to see it. i named it the spark because it will be whatever makes people’s
eyes light up when you describe your film. These elements are what your
audience wants and what you must deliver (or lose your audience).
What film are we in? 37
in Sideways, the spark is ‘an offbeat love story featuring less-than-perfect
couples who like wine, with a lot of action in vineyards’. The spark elements
are ‘offbeat love story’, ‘less-than-perfect couples’, ‘wine’ and ‘vineyards’.
To exploit that idea, the filmmakers gave the audience a lot of ‘offbeat
love story’, ‘wine’, ‘less-than-perfect couples’ and ‘vineyards’. so, the trick is to
try to define your spark and give your audience lots of it. if your spark is ‘a
romantic comedy on mars’, you need to have lots of ‘romantic comedy’ and
lots of ‘on mars’. For example, if your couple has a picnic that goes comically
wrong, it must go comically wrong in a way that is specifically martian.
Defining for yourself what exactly your film’s spark is will help you at
every step of script ⊧. it will:
•
tell you what film you are in and make sure writer, producer and
director are all in the same film
•
give you a clear writing plan
•
give you the pitch, the marketing tool and usually a clear pointer to
the demographic and genre
•
provide you with a safety check you can keep running to make sure
that the film is achieving to its potential
hoW To FInD your SPark
List what you, personally, think is vividly original and utterly irresistible
about the idea then write the blurb for the DVD cover. Then try it on people.
surprisingly often, what makes your listeners’ eyes light up will be an aside
or just something you toss in on the spur of the moment. if so, make sure you
emphasise that element in the script. This is why the spark is so much more
useful for ⊧ and pitching purposes than a logline (an arresting,
one-sentence description of what happens in the film)—because it springs
from audience feedback, whereas a logline is invented in the absence of the
audience, hoping to please it.
if no eyes light up, either you haven’t yet got the spark or you aren’t
describing it properly. keep trying, because if you cannot excite an audience
you don’t yet have a film. and if you don’t know what you’re selling, you can’t
write it (or, indeed, properly sell it).
ConTenTS oF The SPark
The spark can be one thing or a combination of several. it can be charac-
ters in a sight gag, as in Twins (‘two comically dissimilar men are identical
twins’). in a genre film, it’s often the spin on the formula (for example, ‘it’s a
film about a bank robbery—by paraplegics’). it can be a stylistic issue, as in
38 The 21st-Century Screenplay
American Splendor, where animation, adaptation, original drama and docu-
mentary are combined. in some films, such as Men in Black, it happens in
the ⊨ moments as the hook (a moment of high interest to ‘hook’ the
audience): ‘aliens (hostile and friendly) are on earth in disguise and a special
police force controls their activities’. alternatively, it can happen some way
into the movie, as in Tootsie, where the spark is ‘an out-of-work actor pre-
tends to be a woman to get a part’. sometimes a major part of the spark is the
cast, particularly a big-name star, or a celluloid hero (such as James Bond).
even if you know the spark, it’s surprisingly easy to forget it, so keep checking.
if, in your romantic comedy on mars, you’ve got distracted into, say, planning
excellent scenes about the mother, back on earth, of one of the partners, either
dump the mother scenes and come back to mars and the romance or, if you
think the earth scenes are better than the mars scenes, seriously think about
dumping mars and making the film about the earthbound mother. Whenever
you are stuck, go back to the spark, and make sure your script is serving it.
The heaT
The heat is one very specific aspect of the spark, to do with ⊗. The heat of
a film is the crucial character and/or ⊗ ingredient that gives the idea its
attraction. For example, the heat of the film Gran Torino is the developing
warmth between a bigoted, elderly Caucasian man and a family of south east
asians. your ⊗ must stay with the heat. The moment you leave the heat,
your film will flag. Define the heat and stick with it.
a neW WorlD
a useful set of ingredients and motto for a successful film are: ‘powerful
and universally recognisable emotions set in a new world—a world that we
haven’t seen on film before’. The new world is often a physical one, because
new physical worlds, whether Californian vineyards or mumbai before the
indian iT boom, have so much to interest us. however, the new world can
also be of the mind (as in A Beautiful Mind). it can be a genre film set in a
new world (just as the Star Wars movies relocated the western to deep space)
or, like Babe, Charlotte’s Web, Wall-E or the Happy Feet and Toy Story films, it
can take us into the world of other creatures.
so, double-check that the world of your film is somehow new. if it isn’t,
think about relocating it in a new world because often you can, with won-
derful results. a new world can mean new physical location, different era,
different sex and/or age of main characters. if you are doing a world that is
commonly seen (for example, the world of gangsters), show us a new side.
What film are we in? 39
MeSSaGe anD SCenarIo
Films are always ‘about’ two things:
1 The scenario; that is, ‘what happens’. in other words, it is the way the
spark is best carried through the action (for example, in Twins, the
scenario is ‘two comically dissimilar identical twins are comically
involved in a road movie about escaping gangsters and finding their
mother’).
2 The message; that is, the themes and deeper meanings that the
scenario naturally leads us to (in Twins, this is ‘in the process each
twin finds his better self and understands the power of family and
brotherhood’).
however, if you ask writers what their script is about, they will often just
tell you the film’s message, and assume that their scenario demonstrates it
when actually it doesn’t, in much the same way that people can believe a
script illustrates a pitch when it doesn’t. They will assert that, say, their film
is all about father/son relationships when there is only one ⊕ on fathers
and sons. Just declaring that your film is about something doesn’t make it so.
scenario is vital in film because film operates like parable or fable—scenario
delivers message. you can’t get the right message across unless you have an
appropriate scenario. you can’t transmit the message of ‘The Three Little Pigs’
by making the ⊝ that Pig Three was adopted.
Differentiating between message and scenario—understanding your
message and seeing the scenario as the means to carry that message—helps
enormously to keep intention and execution together. also, you need to
understand your film’s scenario and message so that later you know the func-
tion of each ⊕ and can therefore cut redundancies or find a cheaper way
to transmit the same ⊗, character and thematic information. One of the
most frequent problems in any kind of writing is not getting what’s in your
head onto the page. Pinpointing your message and scenario is one of the
most reliable ways of making sure your script transmits what you actually
intend.
BuT WhICh CoMeS FIrST?
it doesn’t matter. Often writers start out knowing the message of their film
but not the scenario (for example, ‘i want to write a film about the lack of
trust and betrayal in marriage’). Others start out knowing the scenario or,
more often, the start or ⊝ of the scenario, but not its message (such
as, ‘a couple goes away on holiday, starts to fight, meets up with a stranger
and ends up murdering him’). sometimes film ideas come from a character
40 The 21st-Century Screenplay
idea (as did Twins). Character ideas are particularly difficult to turn into
films or stories because the writer needs to invent both message and sce-
nario. Whether you are starting from message or scenario, or character
or heat, work hard to isolate the message, because this will tell you where
to go in your scenario and what to emphasise. Be aware that the process
can be difficult and is ongoing—often you have an intuition that you don’t
understand.
InTerDePenDenCe oF SCenarIo anD MeSSaGe
in Twins, the two men finding out about the importance of family could
have been done through all kinds of other plots than the one that was actu-
ally used, the one involving gangsters, a long car journey and a hunt for a
valuable, top-secret engine. Why the ⊗ was useful was because it put the
comically different twins together in a car in an adventure (thus providing
endless opportunities for sight gags), gave them a girlfriend each, and put
them into comic peril. if you isolate the message you give yourself a chance
to play with different plots and choose the best.
message and scenario exist in a symbiotic relationship. They nurture and
focus each other—so much so that in the best pieces of writing it is impos-
sible to imagine any other scenario that would do the job as well (think of
Memento).
IS ‘⊙’ The SaMe ThInG aS ‘MeSSaGe’?
For me, ⊙ is part of message. my definition of message is deliberately
wide: ‘anything and everything in the film connected with a philosophical
comment about life’. i keep it this wide because the term ‘message’ is such a
descriptive one, so provides a constant reminder for writers that a moral or
some kind of comment should exist alongside the story or else audiences will
get testy because they feel the film has no point. For more precise definitions
and observations of a film’s philosophical component, see Linda seger’s fasci-
nating book, Advanced Screenwriting (2003), which breaks down what i call
message into what she calls ‘the ⊙’ and ‘issues arising from the ⊙’ in
Chapter 6, perceptively called: ‘What it’s really about’.
WhaT IF My FIlM haS no MeSSaGe?
even hero movies and horror films have a message—even if it’s as simple
as ‘this action hero can always triumph over evil’ or ‘scientists should not
meddle with nature’. Defining the message in films like these helps you give
the audience a good example of the genre they’ve come to see, reminding
What film are we in? 41
you that, for example, in your sci-fi horror movie, the scenario must depict
the scientist meddling and the terrible consequences. This sounds simple. in
fact, it’s worryingly easy to forget.
The SCenarIo
as we’ll see, the scenario is divided into two plotlines that deal with the pro-
tagonist’s public and private life. The film’s main ⊗ will be the ‘adventure’
and its other ⊗ will deal with the ⊛’s relationships. sometimes a
third will deal with the outer manifestations of an inner flaw.
WrITe one SenTenCe DeSCrIBInG eaCh
Very early in the script’s life, write one sentence describing the message and
one describing the scenario—not as loglines or selling tools, but as a means
of keeping you focused on what exactly you are creating. it is much easier to
write thirty pages about what your film is about than two sentences. if you
change what your script is about either in terms of message or scenario (or
both), change your sentences. ⊚ sentences (see pp. 64–7) will help
here. sometimes you won’t know everything about the message until you’re
into a second draft. That’s what drafts are for. Persist. The spark will always
help. keep reminding yourself of the spark and the heat and keep asking
‘What is this film about, ⊗-wise and message-wise?’ and ‘is this ⊗ the
best way of transmitting that message?’ if scenes are coming to you, brain-
storm what they might be transmitting. if the message is coming to you,
brainstorm various plots that could illustrate your message and don’t forget
the genre equation.
This page intentionally left blank
Part 2
Conventional
⊚
Structure
This page intentionally left blank
45
Chapter 5
overview of conventional
⊚ structure
in The LasT ChaPTer i talked about message and scenario. To summa-
rise, the message is what you want to say (even if it’s as simple as ‘this superhero
is amazing’), the scenario is how you say it. structure is the business of creating
the best scenario to carry and display the message and it consists of a series of
proven techniques to manipulate the very difficult and demanding audience
that is sitting out there ready at every moment to reject your film.
Structure is emotion
Conventional ⊚ structure in screenwriting is today generally accepted
to involve a three-act, linear chronological one-story piece about a single pro-
tagonist on a suspenseful journey towards a goal (and, often, as we’ve seen,
redemption). This sounds very dry, but probably the most important thing to
understand about script structure of all kinds, conventional or otherwise, is
that it is all about emotion; specifically, about controlling and directing audi-
ence emotions in the most calculating and coldblooded of ways so that the
audience will react exactly as the writer wishes at the precise moment the writer
dictates. Film is a very emotional medium. audiences come to the cinema spe-
cifically to laugh, weep or gasp in suspense (sometimes expecting intellectual
content, sometimes not) but—and this is where our problem lies—they do
none of these things easily. They do them only as a result of carefully calculated
⊚ tricks. We present them with a ⊛ (a hero, male or female)
who suffers emotional shock after emotional shock. Technical-sounding terms
like ‘turning points’ are just another way of reminding the writer that to get
the audience engaged the ⊛ needs a big shock or a joyful revelation
at key moments in the 100–120 precious minutes. Turning points in script
structure, conventional and non-conventional, are always moments of great
emotion for the character and thus the audience. a character is faced with a
life-changing surprise. a character is faced with disaster at all sides.
interestingly, guillermo arriaga, while he has limited patience with much
screenwriting theory, says he consciously creates his ⊕ breaks at moments
45
46 The 21st-Century Screenplay
of high emotion. Creating ⊕ breaks and larger act breaks at moments of
extreme emotion is exactly what structural models are intended to help you
to do. The more you know about structure, the more you can control and
focus audience emotions.
The limits of the conventional model
The first thing that needs to be said about what is accepted as the conven-
tional structure for films (that is, the linear three-act model) is that it is not
the only one. This flies in the face of the received wisdom but i believe it to
be true, and, while it means we have a lot more structure to learn about, it
also means that filmmakers who are writing outside the conventional form
need not be trapped in the frustrating position of trying to fit square pegs in
round holes, something that ends either in poor films, or, more commonly,
in scripts abandoned. Other structures are out there to suit their purposes.
Before starting our discussion about conventional ⊚, i want to
look briefly at what, in my view, the conventional structure is good at, not
good at, and other valid story structures that exist outside of it (structures i
will look at later in the book).
many years ago, when i first encountered conventional screenwriting
theory i had spent some years writing for stage, film and television. While
i could see instantly the storytelling value of the one-hero, three-act model
with its built-in rising suspense to a powerful ⊝, i was puzzled because
the theories assumed that this paradigm was the only one possible.
From my work in other dramatic forms i knew that good stories about
groups and involving several storylines, each with a separate ⊛ with
a different point of view, were pleasing stage and TV audiences every day. i
knew that in television we routinely split stories up into five acts or seven acts
and audiences also liked this and wanted more. i knew that flashbacks and
other time jumps (forbidden, even deemed ‘lazy’) could work powerfully. i
knew that films did not have to be about the spiritual improvement of one
individual and could have a social agenda and end less than optimistically,
indeed be heartbreakingly pessimistic, to great acclaim.
i knew that there always had been many successful films that did not fit
the one-hero linear pattern—classics such as Citizen Kane, The Magnificent
Seven and almost every war film and film about a troubled family that has
ever been made (because these are characteristically about the actions and
interactions of a group). i knew that dramatic masterpieces from shake-
speare to ibsen and Chekhov involved group stories: A Midsummer Nights’
Dream is not about one hero, and Chekhov wrote about three sisters, not one.
overview of conventional ⊚ structure 47
Finally, while i knew that aristotle’s Poetics was often cited to prove that
conventional linear ⊚ was, and remains, the only method of storytell-
ing in Western civilisation, i knew that homer’s Odyssey, the iconic journey
story of Western culture, is non-linear and episodic. moreover, i knew that
in Poetics aristotle actually speaks admiringly of the Odyssey’s structure, he
just feels it is inappropriate for the stage.
With all this in mind, the question for me was how then could the one-
hero, three-act ‘conventional’ ⊚ model be the only true model for
film, as was so often assumed?
ChooSe The STruCTure To SuIT The STory MaTerIal
i have come to a number of conclusions over the years. These are:
•
The three-⊬-hero linear model is an excellent and
extraordinarily versatile model, capable of producing films as diverse
yet vividly original as Juno, Children of Heaven, Goodbye Lenin and
the wonderful Synecdoche, New York.
•
The three-act, single-⊛ model is not the only one: others
have always been in use and are completely valid.
•
The conventional model is the most prevalent model, the most
streamlined model, the basic model and, crucially, the safest model
(safety not being something to sneeze at in a high-risk, high-
cost industry like film) because it builds in a fast pace and rising
suspenseful chronological build to closure. in contrast, ensemble and
non-linear models always struggle with pace, connection, meaning
and closure.
•
There is no reason why the three-act model needs to be optimistic,
nor why its ⊛ needs to improve or be redeemed (although
usually the ⊛ does need to undergo change).
•
While conventional ⊚ is a wonderfully useful model, it only
works for a certain kind of film. This film is chronological, has a long
central ⊧ section and involves only one ⊛ and
one point of view. it covers a brief time span, gets off to a very quick
start and always builds directly and suspensefully to a final ⊝.
if you want to write films that don’t fit the conventional model; for example,
ensemble films (such as American Beauty, Traffic and Crash), or flashback
films (Atonement, Slumdog Millionaire and Citizen Kane, for example), or
complex, non-linear films (such as Pulp Fiction, 21 Grams, The Sweet Hereafter
or The Butterfly Effect), or in fact any film that needs to be exposition-heavy,
48 The 21st-Century Screenplay
or have multiple protagonists, or time jumps, or several narratives, the con-
ventional linear template will not work. in this case you need one of the
parallel ⊚ forms.
excitingly, all of the parallel ⊚ forms work by splitting, reassem-
bling and sometimes either truncating or doubling the conventional three-act
⊚ structure, hence they can be planned and written within a reason-
able time frame.
This is all good news. While we continue to have the ever-reliable con-
ventional three-act paradigm at our disposal (in both its optimistic and
pessimistic forms), we no longer have to stick exclusively to that. We don’t
have to choose our story material to fit one template. We have many templates
to choose from, each of which suits a different kind of story, philosophy of
life and message. and, even more exciting, because all of the parallel narra-
tive forms are based on the three-act structure, we already have the building
blocks to construct films in these other structural forms. This is even more
reason to understand as much as possible about conventional ⊚.
The basics of conventional (three-act) structure
The standard method of approaching conventional structure is to take
a structural model (described in detail in a book or by a teacher) and try
to fit the story fragments into it, adding more until the structure is com-
plete. The advantage of this method is that the structure, being proven, is
likely to transmit the story well, and the process of construction itself is a
problem-solving exercise because it reveals the gaps and weaknesses in the
story. The disadvantage of the method is that, however good the structural
model—however good the book—if we persistently use only one methodol-
ogy, vertical thinking will take over the process and short-circuit any original
thinking without our ever realising it. it will use the method to recycle not
only industry clichés but also our own old ideas, generated on the previous
occasions when we used the same method. and this is not the fault of the
method. it is caused by our own innate panic reflex towards shortcuts and
clichéd vertical thinking.
For today’s working writer, the reality is that no one method of creating
a three-act structure is usable for a lifetime to the exclusion of all others. We
must never allow ourselves to think we have ‘the method’ to handle struc-
ture, and we must force ourselves to outwit our talent (which will permit us
to do a reasonably good job on all kinds of weak and clichéd ideas) by chal-
lenging it with new approaches so that rather than chug along at eighty per
cent capacity, it can achieve its full potential.
overview of conventional ⊚ structure 49
Later chapters in this part of the book provide a series of practical tech-
niques for creating a conventional three-act structure, including more
⊧ strategies. Because these strategies work on asking and answer-
ing questions, they demand brainstorming. They frequently cross-refer to
other structural approaches, so they’re useful. But, like all methods, they
can become mechanical, and special effort must be taken to maintain
concentration.
screenplay structure equals good timing. all theories of screenwriting
structure, whether linear or otherwise, boil down to the same basic story-
telling problem: how to keep a live audience engaged for an evening. Film
is a performing art constructed and executed in the absence of its audience,
hence scriptwriting is the art of second-guessing that absent audience. Poor
structure can alienate an audience in the same way that a good joke can be
wrecked by poor telling. Thus, script structure is largely to do with ‘good
timing’: knowing how and when to build up suspense, knowing how long to
delay before delivering the crucial line, understanding the impact of energy
and pause, and so on. Time also impinges in another, more basic way, which
is that because audiences experience screenwriting within a time-imposed
framework, sitting down at 8.30 pm and getting up at 10 pm, the film will
always present itself to them with a ⊤, ⊦ and end. no mat-
ter how unconventional the structure or content, no matter how many time
jumps or complex multiple narratives, time itself imposes this rigid structure
and writers have to cope with it as best they can, creating a powerful start
at 8.30 pm, a gripping ⊦ between 9 and 9.45 pm, and a suspenseful
⊝ at 10 pm. Terrifyingly, the longer the audience sits, the harder the
screenwriter has to work to keep its attention, which means the cleverer/
more moving/more unexpected the rising ⊗ needs to be. even worse, all
this has to be worked out at two or three years’ remove.
in fact everything about film—about moving pictures—is connected with
time and movement in time; that is to say action in every sense. Film consists
of movement in all ways: physical, emotional and spiritual. in screenwrit-
ing, story is movement and our characters move through their own mental
landscape.
some books on scriptwriting actually specify the page number in the
script where structural high points should happen. many writers find this
worryingly rigid. But if you think of it not as a matter of pages but of screen
time, it makes sense, because what is actually being said is that a script needs
a twist or turn every ten to fifteen minutes, otherwise the audience will get
bored—which is really just common sense.
50 The 21st-Century Screenplay
BeaTS or STory STePS
any ⊚, linear or non-linear, is a series of consequences arising from
an initial event or action. it’s a chain reaction. all theories of script structure
depend on the notion of a ‘⊜’, which is a step forward in the ⊗. What is
a ⊜? For example, in ‘Little red riding hood’, red riding hood’s normal
life is ⊜ one. her mother’s instruction to take food to her grandmother is
⊜ two. meeting the wolf is ⊜ three, and so on. a ⊕ is not a ⊜. The
easiest way to understand a ⊕ is that if you have to move the camera and
crew to another place, it’s the end of a ⊕. it might take Little red riding
hood some scenes to gather food for her grandmother, as she goes to the
grocer, to the baker, to the butcher, and so on. all of those scenes are part of
the same ⊜ and often you will need several scenes to show one ⊜. how-
ever, you must make sure you need all these scenes or the film will lose pace.
When you feel a film is slow it’s usually because the film is stuck on the same
⊜, saying the same thing in slightly different ways. This is an easy mistake.
For example, if character X announces that he is going to make a phone call,
explaining what he’ll say, then makes the call exactly as he’s just described, it’s
the same ⊜ in two different ways.
estimate about seventy to eighty beats for one hundred minutes of film.
This total includes all of the beats in each storyline (main ⊗ and subplots),
and you will often have to combine beats from different plotlines in one ⊕
to get them all in. Close plotting, which we’ll deal with later, is how to order,
combine and condense beats to tell the richest version of your story. it’s a core
screenwriting skill and requires ingenuity and practice.
ChronoloGICal BuIlD To CloSure
as i’ve said, the great advantage of conventional three-act ⊚ is that it
uses only those stories that start quickly and build steadily and chronologi-
cally to ⊝, which is definitely the safest to get the audience interested
at 8.30 pm, more interested at 9 pm and on the edge of their seats at
9.55 pm. it chooses story material that quickly introduces the characters and
their problems (providing a strong ⊫), shows the characters’ problems
growing increasingly complicated (providing a long ⊪) and reveals
the characters’ problems resolved in a ⊝ at the end of the third act
(although some theories split the ⊦ into two acts, making the final act
number four). Within this large ‘⊤, long ⊦, end’ structure are
all sorts of twists and turns—devices which experience shows to have worked
with audiences in the past. hence, if you plan your three-act ⊚ and
follow its rules about choice of story and the way you tell that story, you have
overview of conventional ⊚ structure 51
a very good chance of getting a script with all the necessary pace, suspenseful
build to ⊝ and characterisation opportunities.
But aren’t all good films like this? Don’t they all have great beginnings,
middles and ends? yes, but as i have implied, many very good films do not
have these things inbuilt chronologically and would be seriously lacking in
suspense if told in a linear way from start to finish. They need to achieve their
pace and rising suspense via non-linearity. 21 Grams, for example, would be
extremely boring if told chronologically because the lengthy but necessary
pre-accident scenes would seem pointless. Only with hindsight can they play
as unbearably poignant, and the film’s non-linearity provides that hindsight
experience.
The DraMaTIC hIGh PoInTS oF ConVenTIonal
⊚
essentially, a conventional ⊚ film divides up its beats so that it has
an ⊨ hook followed by dramatic high points at the end of the ⊫,
⊪ (or, if a four-act model is being used, at the end of the third act)
and at the ⊝, which occurs just before the end of the film and resolves
the central dilemma of the story.
as mentioned in Chapter 4, a good example of a hook is the ⊨
of Men in Black, where a group of manual labourers turn out to be aliens.
another is the wild chase scenes that always open a James Bond movie. early
on in the film, either as the hook, or after the hook, there will be an event
which changes the normal scheme of things and forces the ⊛ in a
new direction, effectively starting the story. This is called a ‘catalyst’, ‘incit-
ing incident’ or ‘disturbance’. i prefer the term ‘disturbance’; first because it’s
a constant reminder that an action (rather than something internal like a
thought or a feeling) has to occur in the physical world to fracture the protag-
onist’s normality (because that’s something we can actually see) and second
and most importantly, it suggests that this change is the start of many in the
⊛’s life. To me, ‘catalyst’ and ‘inciting incident’ imply that only one
change need occur. Often this is what is wrong with weak stories, particularly
those that start to experience difficulties in the ⊪. They simply don’t
have a complex enough story to last a hundred minutes.
sometimes the disturbance is an apparently harmless event that leads to
serious trouble (as in Thelma and Louise, where the disturbance is two women
going off alone together on holiday, stopping en route at a bar). sometimes
the disturbance is a violent event in itself (as in The African Queen, where
sunday morning prayers are interrupted by a murderous attack). Once the
52 The 21st-Century Screenplay
disturbance has occurred, the suspense builds through one crisis to another
as the film progresses towards its end, in what is sometimes described as a ris-
ing three-act structure, with the ⊝ being the most suspenseful moment
of the film. This makes sense, of course, because putting the moment of high-
est tension any earlier would make the action fizzle.
The main crises are often called ‘⊗ points’ or ‘turning points’. i prefer the
latter because it is more descriptive. Turning points are turns in the story’s
direction that cause turning points in the main characters’ lives. hence, we
have the first-act turning point (the dramatic high point occurring at the end
of the ⊫), the second-act turning point, which occurs at the end of the
⊪, and the ⊝, which occurs at the end of the film. some theo-
rists also include ‘the ⊢’, which is a major event in the ⊦ of the
film that turns the ⊛’s life around.
in Thelma and Louise, the first-act turning point occurs when Louise kills
the man who is attempting to rape Thelma, turning the film in a completely
new direction and creating a shocking problem for the two women.
While the first-act turning point is usually a major shock, some con-
ventionally structured films choose a more subdued, less startling first-act
turning point as part of their overall message. For example, the consciously
gentle Ladies in Lavender has as its first-act turning point the revelation that
the cultured young man is an accomplished violinist (but note that this is still
a kind of surprise). even the deliberately restrained Samson and Delilah, a
poignant love story about two australian aboriginal teen agers, has a sudden
death as its first-act turning point.
Traditionally, the second-act turning point is the point at which the
⊛ is physically or metaphorically closest to death (in Thelma and
Louise, it is when Louise is told by the detective that she and Thelma are being
charged with murder, which carries the death penalty). The third act, tradi-
tionally, is the ⊛’s battle to win (Thelma and Louise rebel against
the society that represses them, particularly the truck driver, who represents
all sexist men), with the battle decided in a ⊝. The ⊝ answers the
question raised in the first-act turning point; hence, Thelma and Louise
commit suicide (⊝) which answers the question, ‘how will Thelma and
Louise react now that they have killed a man?’.
The disturbance, the two turning points, the ⊢ and the ⊝
form the spine of the story, so writers often try to pick them early. This is not
as hard as it might sound, because moments of high drama are often among
the earliest fragments to present themselves. really, once you know the two
turning points and the ⊝, you have your film.
overview of conventional ⊚ structure 53
Charles harris, who wrote and directed Paradise Grove, believes that all
turning points are followed by the ⊛’s decision to act, so he adds a
second step to the second-act turning point; namely, the ⊛’s deci-
sion to fight back (in Thelma and Louise, it is the women’s decision not to give
themselves up). as we’ll see in later chapters, this second step is not only very
useful in constructing conventional ⊚, it’s vital in understanding how
to split up non-linear parallel ⊚.
VISualISInG The Three-aCT STruCTure
To visualise the three/four-act division with all its subdivisions, writers
have developed a range of different diagrams. each presents a different cir-
cuit breaker for subjectivity, and can be enormously useful. ⊮ should be
remembered that while depicting a script diagrammatically in its entirety is
an excellent tool for the writer, the piece of screen drama that we produce is
not experienced by the audience statically and in its entirety, like a painting. it
is experienced as a ⊟ of events—moving pictures—that have to keep
the audience’s attention. so, however wonderful the third act might be, the
audience cannot see it until it has sat through the first and second acts. and if
the first and second acts are poor, the audience will not stay for the third one.
While this might seem glaringly obvious, it is actually very easy to be
so taken up with what comes later in the script that you write a very poor
⊤, thinking of it merely as a way of setting up the excellence that is
to come. This happens all the time with television series, where the writers
get so taken up with later episodes that they perceive the first episode merely
as the set-up. The result is a weak first episode that loses its audience forever.
actually, the importance of movement and the fact that a film is absorbed
as a ⊟ is reflected in many of the diagrams commonly used by writers
to depict and plan the traditional structure that they want to produce. The
diagrams are all related to movement and a journey—travelling a road, mov-
ing full circle, climbing a mountain range. They all depict the ⊛
progressing through a mental landscape.
The MounTaIn
Frequently, to remind us that a film must build to a third-act ⊝, the
rising action of the traditional three-act structure is depicted as a mountain
range with the ⊪ (as is common) being about the same length as the
other two combined. Linda seger, best known for her fine book on script-
writing called Making a Good Script Great (3rd edition, 2010), is one of the
theorists who use models like this one.
54 The 21st-Century Screenplay
⊝ (answers the question set
up at first-act turning point)
Second-act turning point—the
⊛’s closest moment to
death and/or despair, followed by
a decision to act
Disturbance ⊡ (the way
the world goes on)
First-act turning point (a
surprise that turns into an
Normality obstacle that drives the rest of
the film)
⊫ (set up) ⊪ (⊧) Third act (battle to win)
Figure 5.1 The three-act structure as a mountain
The CIrCle
yet another way of depicting the three-act structure is to show the ⊛’s
adventure as a circle, returning to the point where it started. This is the case
with Christopher Vogler’s hero’s journey model, the steps of which have been
outlined on pp. 28–9. Figure 5.2 provides a much simplified model. Christo-
pher Vogler splits the ⊚ into four, not three acts, and the hero proceeds
through specific stages or trials on the journey, each of which is represented in
the proper diagrams in The Writer’s Journey by notches on the circle.
Circular movement
Normality, then reluctant hero
⊝, ⊡ receives the challenge
Third-act battle
to win Hero sets out, usually with
talisman
Fourth act ⊫
First-act turning point.
Hero enters a
different world
full of danger,
Hero almost dies, Third act ⊪ surprises,
is resurrected into betrayals and new
new understanding 2nd Act alliances
(second-act turning point)
Hero has adventures (second-act setbacks, complications)
Figure 5.2 Christopher Vogler’s hero’s journey (simplified)
overview of conventional ⊚ structure 55
roaD or TIMelIne
a third way of depicting a conventional three-act structure is by a diagram
that resembles a road and is really a kind of timeline.
First-act Second-act
Normality Disturbance turning point turning point ⊝ ⊡
⊫ ⊪ Third act
Figure 5.3 The three-act structure as a road or timeline
The IMPorTanCe oF The ⊛
notice that the movement implied in all of the above diagrams is that of
the single ⊛—because the main task of conventional screenwrit-
ing structure is perceived to be creating the journey, the ‘adventure’, of one
⊛ (we’ll look at structures that permit the journeys of several pro-
tagonists later). This is very easy to forget. The audience needs to walk each
step with this ⊛, in their shoes, and each step has to lead audience
and ⊛ in a specific direction. it is very easy for a writer to slip from
being inside the ⊛ to being inside another character, and start to
follow that character (which you can do in parallel ⊚ structures but
not in the conventional model). some theorists actually feel that the protago-
nist should be in every ⊕ of a conventional structure.
The BaSIC SMIley/ThoMPSon nIne-PoInT STory
STruCTure
The nine-point smiley/Thompson structure is an enormously helpful model
for finding the basic shape of your three-act conventional screenplay (see
Figure 5.4). i first came across it many years ago in a class on stage writing
run by Paul Thompson of new york University, who says that he developed
it from sam smiley’s book on playwriting. While Paul Thompson has now
significantly extended his model to include fourteen points (see Figure 5.7),
i find that the basic nine-point model remains an extremely useful structural
method, particularly at the start of the ⊧ process, but also later,
when it can be used as a diagnostic checklist. its great strength is that it breaks
the three/four-act form into nine basic steps according to what the protago-
nist is doing in the script in response to events. This is excellent, because it
constructs the film around the actions of its main character, thus forces the
writer to think of the film in terms of the ⊛’s actions, to create a
story with rising suspense, as opposed to a character just doing things.
56 The 21st-Century Screenplay
in the following chapters, i’ve built on a range of structural approaches,
my own and those of others, including the basic smiley/Thompson model
(Figure 5.4), to create a range of script ⊧ strategies, which, put
together, will help create a solid outline for a conventional linear film.
⊬
1. Normality
2. Disturbance
3. ⊛
4. Plan
5. Surprise . . . which turns into the . . .
6. Obstacle
End of ⊬
Acts two and three
7. Complication, substories, more surprises and obstacles creating acts
two and three
8. ⊝ (end of act three)
9. ⊡ (how the world goes on)
Figure 5.4 Basic Smiley/Thompson nine-point plan
Figure 5.5 shows how the nine-point plan compares with the three-act model.
⊬
1. Normality
2. ⊛ = The set-up
3. Disturbance
Actions in response to
4. Plan =
the disturbance
5. Surprise . . . which First-act turning point,
=
turns into the end of ⊬
6. Obstacle
End of ⊬
Acts two and three
7. Complications,
= Acts two and three
substories
8. ⊝ = At the end of act three
9. ⊡ = How the world goes on
Figure 5.5 nine-point plan compared with three-act model
overview of conventional ⊚ structure 57
‘CInDerella’ STruCTureD aCCorDInG To The BaSIC nIne-PoInT
Plan
Figure 5.6 shows ‘Cinderella’ broken down into the nine-point plan. i have
added an ⊣ to the nine points to suggest the necessary ⊛/
⊣ ⊖.
Cinderella is working as slave to her ugly sisters and
Normality
wicked stepmother.
⊛ Cinderella
The household receives an invitation to the ball from
Disturbance the handsome prince, but Cinderella cannot go because
she has no party clothes.
To go to the ball and meet the prince (⊮ seems
Plan
impossible)
The status quo—‘class distinction’—personified by ugly
⊣
sisters and stepmother
End of set-up
In an amazing physical surprise, Cinderella’s hitherto
First-act unknown fairy godmother appears and provides clothes
turning point and transport for the ball, changing the entire direction
Surprise of the story.
which turns into
Obstacle BUT clothes and transport are provided only until
midnight.
End of ⊫
⊪ Cinderella goes to the ball, entrances the prince, forgets
Complications, the time. (In some versions there is a ball every night
substories, for a week and she goes back to the ball several times,
more surprises getting away before midnight every time except the
and obstacles last.)
Second-act
turning point It’s midnight. Her clothes turn into rags. She runs off in
(closest moment despair, leaving her shoe.
to utter despair)
End of act two
58 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Cinderella returns to her old life, despairing of ever
seeing the prince again. The prince announces that
he will marry the woman whose foot fits the shoe.
In some versions events keep preventing him from
Third act
entering Cinderella’s house. Finally, the prince arrives
at the household but Cinderella is at first not allowed
to try on the shoe. Cinderella fights back (her battle to
win) by asking to try on the shoe.
⊝
(answering the
question set up The shoe fits. The prince says he will marry her.
by the first-act
turning point)
Figure 5.6 ‘Cinderella’ broken down into the basic Smiley/Thompson plan
interestingly, in ‘Cinderella’, as in many fairy stories with a female ⊛,
including ‘sleeping Beauty’ and ‘Little red riding hood’, the ⊛’s
decision to fight back and the battle to win are not pronounced; indeed, they
are done largely by a male saviour. modern films usually make the female
more proactive.
aCTIon lIne anD relaTIonShIP lIne
so far i have been talking about conventional ⊚ as primarily concerned
with the ⊛’s adventure (known as the main ⊗ or foreground
story). however, in many scripts the script was inspired by its ‘subplot’ or
‘background story’; that is, the ⊛’s relationships. The classic example
is Witness, which was specifically written to explore the emotional relation-
ship between an amish woman and an urbanised man. The main ⊗—in
which the woman’s son witnesses a murder and the urbanised man has to
hide out on the amish farm—is merely a means to bring the two together in
a suspenseful situation, a way of permitting the subplot to happen.
MaIn ⊗ anD SuBPloT eQual
Because the relationship material is so important to the film i prefer to use
my term ‘action line’ for the adventure (rather than the more commonly used
terms ‘main ⊗’ or ‘foreground story’), and my term ‘relationship line’ for
the relationship material (rather than ‘sub-⊗’ or ‘background story’). as
well as removing any suggestion that the adventure is more important than
the relationship material, the term ‘action line’ is a helpful reminder that
overview of conventional ⊚ structure 59
this particular plotline must move from causative action to causative action.
meanwhile, the term ‘relationship line’ rather than ‘subplot’ acknowledges the
great importance of relationship material in the film and is a helpful reminder
that this ⊗ must deal with a developing relationship (not, for example, just
redundant, eternal bickering). i will use these terms from now on.
STruCTure oF The relaTIonShIP lIne
structurally, the subplot has its own three-act structure, with catalyst/
disturbance, first-act turning point, second-act turning point and ⊝. it
is usually set up in the ⊫ and developed extensively in the ⊪,
after the first-act turning point has changed the ⊛’s world. in many
cases the relationship line can’t happen until the ⊪ because the pro-
tagonist does not meet the relevant relationship line characters until then.
For example, in The Station Agent, Fin cannot meet Olivia and Joe until he
moves to the train depot.
oTher aPProaCheS To The ConVenTIonal lInear
STruCTure
many of the approaches to conventional linear structure consist of divid-
ing the three-act action line in different ways—into nine, eleven, and so on.
Check all of these out. There are many, many of them, all with a different
perspective. many writers find Frank Daniel’s approach particularly useful,
whereby you think of your script as seven crucial episodes. another very
productive method is the eight-part division recommended by Jack epps
Jnr, the writer of films like Top Gun, Anaconda, Turner and Hooch and Legal
Eagles. also extremely valuable are any approaches that describe the struc-
ture in terms of what the ⊛ is being faced with and doing (this is
one of the joys of Vogler’s hero’s journey model) because they are a useful
reminder of the necessity of the ⊗ to move forwards. Overleaf, in Figure
5.7, is Paul Thompson’s extended version of the nine-point structure.
Without good structure, a good idea is nothing. The film industry is full
of good film ideas that never reach the screen, also, sadly, many good ideas
that reach the screen are so structurally flawed that they never achieve their
full potential.
The following chapters provide a detailed, step-by-step guide for con-
structing the outline or ‘⊜ sheet’ for a simple-form three-act film, the map
of your film you will use to take it to first draft. They also explain how to avoid
common pitfalls and how, as far as possible, to be your own script doctor.
60 The 21st-Century Screenplay
1. Balance
2. Disturbance
3. Person with a problem
4. ⊛
5. Plan
6. The ⊚ question. What does the audience HOPE and FEAR?
7. Obstacles
8. Surprise(s)
9. ⊦: character, relationships, themes + substories
10. Substories
11. More surprises
12. Major crisis A story, B story etc.
13. Major ⊝ A story, B story etc.
14. ⊡
Figure 5.7 extended version of the Smiley/Thompson plan
61
Chapter 6
Planning a conventional, three-act
structure
sCreenWriTers LOVe WriTing DiaLOgUes and scenes. That’s
what we do. But, without a plan, you are unlikely to write a story that rises
suspensefully to a ⊝ within the permissible screen time. ironically, your
talent may pull you off track. instead of taking Little red riding hood from
the grocer’s into the woods to meet the wolf, you are likely write a wonderful
but utterly irrelevant ⊕ between the grocer and his gangster brother, leav-
ing the audience thinking, irritably: ‘What’s the point of this?’
assembling the fragments
it would be wonderful if the story behind a film presented itself in a logical
way; starting at the ⊤ and proceeding neatly through to the end.
Unfortunately, stories present in fragments—a character, a ⊕, a ⊝—
and the writer’s job is to interpret these fragments and impose some kind of
order without pre-empting the creative process.
With a film script, as with a drawing or architectural plans, you start from
a few bold strokes, move to a broad, general sketch, then gradually start fill-
ing in the detail.
The first step is to find a way of collecting and storing all the disconnected
fragments—action line, relationship line, message, scenario, spark, new
world, characterisation and all the other bits and pieces of the script—until
they start to assume some kind of shape. some writers have a special note-
book. some have a blackboard or notice board. Others write the fragments
on pieces of paper which they then crumple into balls and toss into a basket
until it is full. a lot of this is about psyching yourself into the right frame of
mind, but in all cases there is a commitment to letting the lateral imagination
do its spadework over as much time as possible without interference from
logic. screenwriters do not have the luxury of time permitted to novelists,
but time given over to accumulating ideas is time well spent. The more frag-
ments the better. you might like to write your spark on a piece of paper and
post it above your desk.
61
62 The 21st-Century Screenplay
The ⊜ SheeT, ouTlIne anD TreaTMenT
What you are aiming for at this point is a ‘⊜ sheet’ or ‘outline’—a step-by-
step description in point form of the ⊗ content (including action line and
relationship line) of your whole film. This will provide the final map for your
film before you embark on the micro-engineering task of writing your indi-
vidual scenes, each of which has to be carefully selected to earn its keep and
meticulously put together so that the film keeps its picky audience engaged.
you won’t be able to finish this for some time because it takes a great deal
of work. The treatment is a prose description of the film often required by
investors. in the chapters that follow there are various strategies that will help
you construct your ⊜ sheet, outline and treatment. For more on treatment
writing see pp. 469–75.
Well-prepared ⊜ sheets, outlines and treatments are lifesavers. They
permit you to control the script rather than letting the script control you, or
rather, letting your mood of the moment control you—because, if you con-
struct your script as you go, you are at the mercy of how creative you happen
to be on the day. Without them, one bad afternoon can see your characters
heading off in a direction that is utterly wrong, but which you are then stuck
with. Completed ⊜ sheets and outlines permit you to immerse yourself
in writing the minutiae of each individual ⊕ to your best, allowing you
to seed later ⊗ issues and build cleverly to the end of each ⊕ so that it
jumps well to the next. The huge advantage of this is that if you get stuck on a
difficult ⊕ or have only a small amount of time to write that day, you can
jump ahead to an easy ⊕ or ⊟ and write that. additionally, if you
ever feel later that you have taken the wrong direction, you can go back to
where you took that wrong direction and take the right one.
screenwriter and University of California, Berkeley, lecturer J. mira
kopell actually bases her teaching of feature film writing around the careful
creation of a detailed outline.
Basic plan of your film
Use Figure 6.1, which is a basic plan of what your film has to contain and
depict, to create a very simple plan of your film, to remind yourself about
message and scenario and the way action line drives relationship line. Put a
simple sentence or two into the message and scenario boxes outlining your
rough ideas (for example, under scenario, write: ‘ill-matched couple travel
down river in africa to blow up enemy war ship’ and under message, ‘tri-
umph of human spirit, opposites can attract, love can change people’). Check
that your rough idea of the scenario looks capable of depicting your message,
Planning a conventional, three-act structure 63
and that your action line looks as if it will permit your relationship line to
happen. you can keep coming back to it as you progress, adding more.
The film
Message Scenario
Themes, deeper meaning, The adventure, and what
symbolism happens in the relationships
Relationship Action line
line
(the ‘adventure’
(the ⊛’s which permits the
main personal relationship line
relationship) to happen)
Figure 6.1 Basic plan of what your film has to contain and depict
uSe The DIaGraMS
Use the mountain and circle diagrams, inserting notes about the steps of
your story. you will keep modifying this. every time you look at these, their
shape will remind you of the fact that you are not creating random incidents,
but are tracking one story’s rising suspense to a ⊝.
Make STruCTure CharTS
simultaneously, start making a basic structure chart into which you can start
inserting your fragments, trying to get them into some kind of loose chrono-
logical order and three-act structure. all that this requires is a page divided
into three columns, labelled ‘⊬’, ‘act Two’, ‘act Three’—or, even more
simply, ‘⊤’, ‘⊦’ and ‘end’ (these refer to the action line). some
of your ideas will be action line, others will be relationship line and some
will concern message, character etc. Just put them all in. you will have to
keep updating your charts and creating new ones. keep them all for reference
because you may go off course.
The point of structure charts is to keep options open while feeling your
way towards the story. By all means think about possible scenes and note
64 The 21st-Century Screenplay
down every idea, but be aware that one strong ⊕ can send the story in
a direction that will later reveal itself to be quite wrong. you might well
have scenes that you know, in your bones, are crucial to the story and will
stay. maybe they will, but, surprisingly, you may later find that you transmit
your point more vividly with a condensed version. For example, writing a
film about a mother investigating her serviceman son’s suicide, your ini-
tial idea might be to spend the first part of the film showing the mother,
after the funeral, driving across country to the military base to confront
its commanding officer, meeting other grieving mothers on the way. Later,
you might decide that the journey is a distraction and you can get a much
stronger impact by making the mother publicly confront the officer very
early on in the film, say actually at the son’s funeral, where she can also
briefly but powerfully interact with the grieving mothers, so you don’t need
the elaborate journey set-up.
Figure 6.2 depicts what a simple structure chart devised in the early
stages of writing Being John Malkovich might have looked like had Charlie
kaufman used this method. Of course, the chart is entirely fictitious and mr
kaufman might well have used a completely different approach. note that a
lot of options are wide open and much will be thrown out. notice also how
the content is put in the form of questions, so as to resist committing too
early.
⊧ Strategies 5 and 6: Simple and
advanced ⊚ sentences
i’ve created some ⊧ strategies to find the chain of events in the
action line based on the smiley/Thompson model called a ‘⊚ sen-
tence’. a ⊚ sentence is a fill-in-the-gaps method of checking that
the idea is developing into a proper story; that it is something more than a
logline, half-idea or an ongoing normality, and that it is based on the actions
of the ⊛. it’s surprising how far down the track scripts can go with-
out their writers having a real sense of what story is being told. The ⊚
sentence forces you to provide your story spine—unlike thirty-page treat-
ments in which it is easy to ramble and avoid the hard ⊚ questions. it
is very easy to spend twenty pages of your treatment giving a vivid account
of the first ten minutes of your film, then use the remaining ten to give the
baldest of explanations about what is to happen next.
First of all, try the simple ⊚ sentence.
Planning a conventional, three-act structure 65
Feature film:
weird, thought-provoking comedy about being able to get into
someone’s head. Possible title—‘The Portal’?
⊬ Act two Act three
⊨? Protag? A Once inside person’s John Malkovich
man. head what can he do? realises something is
Rob a bank? Seduce happening? Or should
Peter? John? Craig?
women? Or do women this be earlier?
Setting? What is seduce him? What is
John Malkovich dies
⊛ doing his wife or girlfriend
with Craig, Maxine and
before disturbance? doing at the time?
Lotte in his head? They
Craig finds portal into Personal story. Parents? are trapped in a dead
someone’s mind. Wife? Love story? body?
Infidelity story? Any
Where is it? How does Wife dies? Maxine
way of linking the two
he find it? On a walk in shoots Craig?
stories?
the country? In a coat?
Happy ⊥? Or
In a suitcase? Under the Maxine and Lotte
Craig loses everything?
bed? attracted?
Craig killed by person
What is Craig’s job? NB There must be whose mind he gets
some explanation of into? Craig going crazy,
Is he married? Yes, has
the portal somewhere. ⊥ up a derelict?
wife, Lotte, a meek
woman. Craig and his wife
living happily ever
NB What is Craig’s job?
after?
How can it fit in with
the story?
In ⊬ he meets
another woman?
Maxine?
Is there any
philosophical content
in this, or is it just
science fiction? If
philosophical content,
what?
What is the ⊥ of
⊬? Finding the
portal?
Figure 6.2 hypothetical structure chart for writing Being john Malkovich
66 The 21st-Century Screenplay
⊧ Strategy 5
CreaTe a SIMPle ⊚ SenTenCe
Create a simple sentence to describe your story in terms of the ⊛’s
⊟ of actions using the following model:
[⊛] faced with [problem] responds by [series of actions]
and finally deals with [same problem as above] by [⊝].
Questions to ask:
•
Can I fit my story into this simple structure?
•
Does this scenario fit my message?
as you go further into ⊧, start trying to complete the advanced
⊚ sentence (which is really just the basic smiley/Thompson nine-
point plan rendered as a fill-in-the-gaps sentence).
⊧ Strategy 6
CreaTe an aDVanCeD ⊚ SenTenCe
Fill in the gaps to describe your story in terms of the ⊛’s ⊟
of actions.
[Describe ⊛], who is currently [describe normality],
experiences [describe disturbance] responds by [describe plan in
response to disturbance] but everything changes when [describe surprise
that turns into the obstacle which drives the rest of the film] which
causes [describe increasing complications] which are resolved ultimately
by [describe ⊝] and the story ends [describe ⊡].
Questions to ask:
•
Can I fit my story into this more advanced structure?
•
Does this scenario fit my message?
you will find filling in the gaps in both of these sentences difficult—natu-
rally, because the sentences are summaries of your entire film. expect to keep
returning to them and modifying them as you proceed.
⊚ sentences can gradually be expanded to create your entire out-
line, in fact your whole thirty-page treatment, with the great advantage that
the ⊚ is being built, as it were, from the inside out—from the skeleton
outwards—so it will be very strong. ⊚ sentences also permit an over-
view of your whole film. They allow you to think about structure but do not
Planning a conventional, three-act structure 67
lock you into a scenario before you are ready. They also physically show you
where the story’s gaps are and prompt you to consider different ways of fill-
ing them (unlike treatments, where good prose can conceal poor structure).
⊚ SenTenCeS For relaTIonShIP lIne
The ⊚ sentences mentioned above refer to the ⊛’s adven-
ture, the action line. The relationship line of your script also has a three-act
structure, which we shall return to later, using the ⊚ sentences to help.
Chapter 7
normality and disturbance (the
set-up)
as yOU are maPPing out your script with structure charts and ⊚
sentences, you will need to fill in more detail. This is where the later develop-
ment strategies come in. They are designed to help you create a plan for the
simplest form of conventional rising three-act ⊚. They are also useful
as a starting point to check that an existing three-act script has the necessary
structural elements in place and remedy problems if it has not.
Because a film is planned from the general to the particular—from a
broad idea inwards to detail—sometimes the ⊧ strategies jump
from one topic to another and back again. rather than try to work on your
script as you read through the strategies, read through them first, then go
back and use them for reference as you plan the script.
When you actually start to apply the ⊧ strategies to your script,
brainstorm each new one to get ‘real but unusual’ answers. expect many of
your first answers to be clichéd or uninspiring—but persist. you will use the
⊧ strategies again and again in the planning as more detail comes
to you, referring to them in conjunction with your structure charts to create
your final map for your film before you embark on writing scenes, your ⊜
sheet or outline. For quick reference, use the list on pp. x–xi.
Getting a good set-up: normality and disturbance
your film is a chain reaction of events. The first event in the action line—the
first step up the mountain or signpost along the road—is the disturbance.
This simply means something unusual happening in the normality—the nor-
mal world—of the ⊛. The disturbance acts to give the ⊛ a
problem that the course of the film will answer, either happily or otherwise.
These elements—⊛, normality and disturbance, plus the problem
that arises out of the disturbance—provide the set-up. a common failing of
weak films is that they do not properly set up their story and main players.
how is it possible to know whether a set-up is working properly?
normality and disturbance (the set-up) 69
Too MuCh norMalITy, Too lITTle DISTurBanCe
set-up problems are normally caused by writers spending too much time
on the normality. it is surprisingly easy to write material about an ongoing
normality; that is, to write different scenarios or tableaux which describe an
unchanging state (for example, different aspects of life in a country town)
or character (the way a certain character typically behaves—say, losing their
temper over trivialities) rather than creating a journey through which a char-
acter must travel.
repeated normality—writing endless different versions of essentially
the same ⊕—is also often seen in films about life stories, journeys or
long-term relationships, because in such cases it is easy to mistake physical
movement or movement of time for movement in ⊗ and character.
endlessly repeating the normality is something to which actor–writers
are particularly prone because their training is to create a character, rather
than a character moving through a scenario. a film that displays these faults
very evidently is Mr Saturday Night written, directed and starring Billy Crys-
tal. The film sets out to show an egotistical, self-destructive, but ultimately
endearing comedian. But rather than create a ⊗ that takes this character
on a journey, the film ends up merely showing us different instances of the
same thing; namely, a comedian being self-destructive. The film becomes
boring because the comedian is not given a problem. Compare the film of
John Osborne’s play The Entertainer, in which Laurence Olivier plays an ego-
tistical, self-destructive comedian who needs money, and therefore does a
series of unscrupulous things. The crucial story elements here are ‘a problem,
a goal and a journey’.
To check that your film has a problem, a goal and a journey rather than
multiple versions of essentially the same ⊕, use the simple ⊚
sentence, ⊧ strategy 5. While films that are slow often have too
much normality before the disturbance, if the ⊛ has been properly
identified and is interesting enough, this can give the film an epic or art-
house quality, as in Kiss of the Spider Woman or Out of Africa, and often the
intention is exactly to be slow. But if poorly handled it can be disastrous. a
simple way to understand what makes a disturbance is that the story can-
not start until the disturbance happens. Think of shaggy dog stories. These
always start with (say) the englishman, the scotsman and the irishman in a
specific situation, such as walking along a road. But the joke proper cannot
start until something else occurs (for example, a lion appearing).
Think of the normality as your ⊛ on the cusp of change, and the
first part of the change is the disturbance. Consider starting your film on or
70 The 21st-Century Screenplay
just after the disturbance, as happens in Juno (where the ⊨ shows Juno
trying to prove her pregnancy test wrong) and Gran Torino (which opens on
the funeral of Walt’s wife, leaving him isolated, permitting the relationship
with his neighbours to develop). notice that in both films, the way we learn
about the disturbance is in a dynamic, interesting ⊕ set after the distur-
bance event—so the film opens with the action line already on its way. Juno
is already pregnant and Walt’s wife has already died. more lyrical films will
often show longer normality, as in The Station Agent, where the disturbance,
henry’s death, happens some time after the start.
remember that a disturbance is not a feeling or mood (‘John is feeling
miserable’)—it is an event. a useful rule of thumb is that a good disturbance
cannot be described without a verb, often a verb of movement, disruption
or change—the gunslinger rides into town, the detective breaks a leg, the
novelist receives a mysterious letter, the missionaries are attacked by enemy
soldiers. This rule makes up ⊧ strategy 7.
⊧ Strategy 7
Make Sure The DISTurBanCe haPPenS Soon anD
InVolVeS real ChanGe
Describe the disturbance with a verb of movement, disruption or change.
Questions to ask:
•
Is my disturbance ‘real but unusual’ (⊧ Strategy 2)?
•
Is the verb to describe it a verb of movement or disruption, or is it a
‘passive’ verb like ‘living’, ‘feeling’, ‘experiencing’? If it’s the latter, you
haven’t got a proper disturbance in place yet.
identifying the disturbance makes us understand the essence of the normal-
ity. For example, in Being John Malkovich, if we decide that the disturbance
is Craig being forced to give up puppeteering to get a job in commerce, to
get maximum dramatic effect we must do everything we can in the pre-
disturbance minutes to establish Craig’s normality as an unsuccessful but
passionately committed puppeteer. The audience can only value the distur-
bance if they know what and how much it is disturbing. in practical terms
this means that we must use every moment from the start of the film—titles
included, if possible—to describe the normality. if you want a fast start, use
the Juno and Gran Torino trick of implying the normality and disturbance
through an energised ⊕ after the disturbance event.
a film with a poor disturbance is usually a film with a poor action line
normality and disturbance (the set-up) 71
because the disturbance is the first movement of the action line. as we’ll see
later, a poor action line means that the film has to function on a static rela-
tionship line.
Finding the action line
With the normality and disturbance in place, the next step is to start finding
the chain of reactions created by the disturbance. The next question to ask is:
‘Does the film have a story (action line) yet?’
a disturbance on its own does not mean there is a proper action line. an
idea for a film ‘about a reclusive actress living in spain’ is not yet a potential
story because the statement describes only a normality. When the reclusive
actress living in spain catches a burglar, that constitutes a disturbance, but
the story can’t stop there. it is the consequence of the disturbance, the twists
and turns that occur as a result of catching the burglar, that will provide the
action line. Many films that falter in the ⊪ do so because they don’t
have enough story. Technically, this is because the story has only a distur-
bance (a small change, something logical, that might have been expected)
not a small change leading to unexpected, suspenseful consequences. a
small change alone gives you only a small story.
keep trying to work out the simple ⊚ sentence and use Develop-
ment strategy 8 to help.
⊧ Strategy 8
DISTInGuISh an IDea FroM a STory
Make sure you have distinguished your idea from your action line.
remember that an idea is a normality or a normality disturbed by an
unusual event, and a story (action line) is a chain of reactions following an
unusual event.
Questions to ask:
•
am I genuinely devising a story or am I simply devising different scenes
to illustrate the same normality, or the same normality plus disturbance
(for example, spending a long time on Walter being a widower before
interacting with his neighbours)?
•
What is the normality, and have I got too much of it?
•
Is it on the cusp of change?
•
What is the disturbance and is it really leading to the first-act turning
point and a proper adventure?
Chapter 8
action line or relationship line?
This ChaPTer is aBOUT differentiating between action line and rela-
tionship line, developing the relationship line and then entwining the two.
as we saw with Witness, it’s very common for writers to be impelled to
write not because they have a strong action-line idea but because they want
to deal with an interesting character or interpersonal relationship. That’s
fine. neither action line nor relationship line is superior, but you need
both, so you need to know which one is presenting itself to you. you also
need to understand the precise way in which the two types of storylines are
interdependent.
One way of confirming that the idea that’s come to you is the beginnings
of a relationship line is to ask yourself whether your idea is primarily that two
people are forced together and quarrelling. if so, what you are feeling is your
film’s relationship line. Use ⊧ strategy 9 to check this.
⊧ Strategy 9
DIFFerenTIaTe The aCTIon lIne anD The
relaTIonShIP lIne
remember that the relationship line deals with relationships and internal
changes and is often what impels writers to write. If the story idea presents
itself to you as a relationship or a change of character, you are sensing the
film’s relationship line and you need an action line to carry it.
Questions to ask:
•
Is my idea based on relationships, particularly a ⊖-ridden
relationship, or a character undergoing internal change?
•
Do I have an action line yet?
•
Will the action-⊗ scenario I have chosen to carry the relationship line
display it better than any other?
72
action line or relationship line? 73
The action line causes the relationship line
a relationship cannot change until events force it to change, so you need to cre-
ate a strong action line: a series of events that force change on your characters.
if your action line does not provide events that can change the relationship, all
your characters can do is bicker unproductively. a film with events that force the
relationship to change is The African Queen. The developing love between rose
and allnutt could not happen without the action line, the journey down the river.
Without the river journey, those two characters would never have come together,
and, cleverly, every incident on the journey marks a movement forward in their
progression towards love. Compare this to Guarding Tess, a film where the action
line does not permit the relationship line the filmmakers were after. Guarding
Tess is supposed to be about how a feisty, wilful elderly widow of a Us presi-
dent and the young security guard who has to look after her move from mutual
hostility to love and warmth. Unfortunately, the film’s action line gives them no
chance to change and bond. The characters spend a lot of time bickering, then
Tess is kidnapped and the security guard has to find her. he does so in the final
moments of the film, and the two behave as if there is great love between them,
something quite implausible because the last time we saw them they disliked each
other intensely. For a more detailed analysis of Guarding Tess, see pp. 415–16.
if The African Queen had been approached this way, we would have had
rose and allnutt stuck in their roles as picky spinster and happy drunk, bick-
ering at the mission, with the mission’s destruction and the journey down
the river starting only towards the very end of the film. Later in the book i
reconstruct The African Queen without a journey down the river to show the
importance of action line on relationship line (see pp. 137–9).
in a successful film, the action line permits, indeed causes, the relation-
ship line to happen. a good action line not only forces the relationship-line
characters together but keeps challenging them, individually and incremen-
tally, in different ways. For the writer, this means choosing an action-line
scenario that ensures that every incident is both relevant to the action-line
‘adventure’, and can progress the relationship line another step. however, you
can’t choose appropriate action-line incidents to carry the relationship line
forward until you know where you want the relationship line to go; that is,
where it starts and where it ends up.
Define where you want the relationship to go
To work out a simple progression for the relationship line, start by jotting
down a simple ‘relationship road’, with signposts indicating the develop-
mental steps of the relationship. make sure the relationship does develop
72
74 The 21st-Century Screenplay
(that is, that the signposts show ⊧ and cannot be interchanged).
The advantage of this is that it will lock proper incremental growth into
the relationship line, preventing your relationship-line scenes from turn-
ing into unproductive bickering, as in Guarding Tess, something that can
happen frighteningly easily. Creating this ‘relationship road’ actually over-
laps with another approach we will come across later, the ⊠. The
⊠ is about each individual’s emotional journey (what’s going on
inside their heads and hearts), whereas the relationship line is about the
external behaviour of two or more people, their public interaction.
⊧ Strategy 10
CreaTe a relaTIonShIP roaD
list the steps in the relationship line from start to finish.
Questions to ask:
•
What are the characters in the planned relationship like at the start of
the film and what are they like at the end of the film?
•
What hurdles can I put in the way of them coming together (or falling out)?
•
What changes does each have to make—or does only one character change?
Peg your relationship line to the action-line
timeline
Once you’ve got your ‘relationship road’ you have to find scenes that show
each step. There is a fast and reliable way to do this (and to also make sure
the action line and relationship line are interwoven, as they must be). simply
go to your action line, work out its timeline, and peg your relationship line to
events in that timeline. The action line always arrives with some kind of time-
line, with some scenes already built in. For example, in a comedy heist story
about John and anna falling in love in the process of planning and robbing
a bank, the characters have to (a) decide to commit the robbery, (b) plan it,
(c) execute it and (d) either get away with the money or get caught. There
will have to be scenes involving all of this—the characters will scope out the
bank, assemble the gang, discuss the modus operandi and do the robbery.
By contrast, while we know that John and anna will gradually fall in love,
we don’t know the progression, or where, when and how that love happens.
We do know, however, that ‘the action line permits the relationship line to
happen’, so the heist will cause the falling in love. To plan the love story, work
out the action line heist (your charts and other planning tools described in
action line or relationship line? 75
Chapter 6 will help), then find places in it where the progression of the love
story could credibly happen. if you need the pair to feel sudden rapport, find
an event in the heist story that causes it. if you need them to quarrel, find a
reason in the heist story; make the quarrel be triggered by something in the
heist. you will find that the heist story will act as a story trigger for brain-
storming (heist + love story + real + unusual).
as you are going through this pegging process, think about what events in
the action line can cause your characters’ relationships to change. By sketch-
ing in ideas, you will find a genuine story about your characters’ changing
relationship is ⊤ to form. To further enhance that story, start to
plan it out as a three-act structure, because this will build in rising suspense,
making it even more powerful. The disturbance will be the start of the rela-
tionship, the first-act turning point will be the surprise/obstacle in the path of
the relationship, and the ⊪ will show a variety of hurdles in the way
of the relationship. The relationship’s lowest point will occur at a second-a ct
turning point before the characters in the relationship come together for a
final great effort in their action-line struggle. in the ⊝ of the action line
they will normally encounter the ⊝ of the relationship line, which will be
the moment of truth for their relationship, the point to which the whole film
has been leading them, emotionally. For example, in the closing moments of
The African Queen just as rose and allnutt, moments before their scheduled
execution, are being married (⊝ of the relationship line), the drifting
wreckage of The African Queen hits the side of the german ship they were
seeking to destroy, and blows it up (⊝ of the action line). rose and all-
nutt could have been married either before or after the blowing up of the
ship. To combine the two increases the energy of the film.
Use all of your tools to map out the action-line three-act structure (the
mountain, the circle, the nine-point smiley/Thompson model and the simple
and advanced ⊚ sentences) to peg both lines together.
⊧ Strategy 11
PeG The relaTIonShIP lIne To The aCTIon lIne anD
STarT CreaTInG a Three-aCT STruCTure For The
relaTIonShIP lIne
Write a timeline of the action line in point form then find events in the
action line where steps in the relationship line can be credibly and logically
caused and can happen.
76 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Questions to ask:
•
have I written a timeline of the action line?
•
have I found events on the timeline where action-line progression can
happen?
•
have I found good relationship scenes to insert into action-line events?
•
Is my relationship-line movement tied closely to my main ⊗’s
movement?
•
are the scenes in the relationship line genuinely moving the
relationship forward, or am I duplicating the same interaction?
•
have I started to identify and develop the three-act structure of my
relationship line, tracking the relationship through its disturbance, first-
and second-act turning points and ⊝?
Linda seger’s book Making a Good Script Great has some very useful dis-
cussion and diagrams on interweaving the action and relationship lines,
particularly on how the two three-act structures interact, in Chapter 3, ‘What
subplots do’ (although notice that she has a rather different take on story
lines, and uses different terminology, so that my ‘relationship line’ is referred
to as a ‘subplot’). you will continue to work on interweaving as you go.
⊝ in inner/outer story films
as i’ve said, in most linear films, the climaxes of relationship line and action
line occur in the same event. There are, though, certain films in which action
line and relationship line ⊝ in different scenes. These are films in which
a character’s inner flaw has caused the story (as in The Piano, where the flaw
is ada’s refusal to talk except through the piano). They involve a mechanism
termed ‘inner story/outer story’. Their heat is in the problems the ⊛’s
flaw causes, and in how the ⊛ overcomes the flaw and becomes a
more balanced person. inner story/outer story is related to another charac-
ter ⊧ component in films, called ‘the ⊠’. We’ll look at
inner story/outer story and character arcs when we look at characterisation.
WhaT IF I Don’T yeT haVe an aCTIon lIne?
What happens if you don’t yet have an action line, just an interesting char-
acter? good questions to ask here are: What attracted you to this character
in the first place? What do you want to transmit about the character to the
audience? What is new, exciting or interesting about the character? What is
the new world you are showing us?
Frank Daniel’s suggestion for finding a story to fit a character was to iden-
tify the character’s weakest point and construct a ⊗ around that, a good
action line or relationship line? 77
recipe as your film will then be truly character-driven. having identified the
weakest point, put the character in precisely the situation where this will
be most exercised. The more that events demand of characters—the more
your characters are put on the line, the more they are tormented—the more
intrigued the audience will be (as long as you keep it real).
aCTIon MoVIeS
it’s important to be aware that some genres require fewer beats overall, par-
ticularly action films, for the simple reason that they do not have the available
screen time. The actual plots of most action films are very simple because so
much screen time has to be devoted to chases, fights, amazing escapes and
the like. These stop the ⊗ because nothing can go forward until the ‘Will
they get away?/Won’t they get away?’ of the action ⊟ is resolved. Once
the chase/entry/burglary has been concluded, the ⊗ can continue—but not
until then.
Because there is less room for complexity, the steps that are there must be
as original as possible, particularly in the relationship line. in many action
movies the relationship line is often as simple as a developing romance
between the male hero and the woman he has to save or capture. Other forms
of simple relationship line occur in ‘buddy movies’, in which the relationship
line concerns the growing friendship between two partners both involved
in the physical chasing of the action ⊗. ⊖ between the pair ener-
gises the film—without it, they have only the external enemy. Poor action
movies often display very clichéd relationship lines, whereas good action
movies usually have interesting, witty or surprising ones (after all, The Afri-
can Queen, one of the great screen love stories, is for all intents and purposes
an action movie).
relationship lines in action films need careful thought because they are
restricted quite seriously by the genre’s inbuilt demand that they happen ‘on
the move’, as part of the chase or journey. There is simply not enough time to
remove the ⊛ from the ⊕ of the action in order to interact with
another character—for example, a spouse at home. an interesting example
of an action movie where a spouse is physically removed from home and put
next to the ⊛ is in the arnold schwarzenegger film True Lies.
Chapter 9
Protagonists and characters who
seem like protagonists but are not
COnVenTiOnaL ⊚ is aLL about the ⊛’s journey.
The story cannot start until the ⊛ is identified and shown in their
normal life (in their normality), and the story cannot move forward until
a disturbance fractures the ⊛’s normality and forces them into a
course of action.
in practical terms, this means that films that do not establish their protag-
onists early try the audience’s patience. a striking example is Jaws 3, which
takes twelve minutes to do this. Often, delays of this sort are related to the
fact that the filmmakers involved do not really know what film they are in, so
are not properly focused on whose story to follow.
interestingly, establishing the ⊛ early is the mark of successful
films across all cultures. While films from some cultures often take a long
while to get to their disturbance or their first-act turning point and have
very low-key plots, they will almost always set up their ⊛ early, so
the audience knows whose story it is following. a good example is Tulpan,
in which the young ⊛, who wants to marry Tulpan, is set up in the
film’s ⊨ moments in a marriage interview.
Until the audience knows who the ⊛ is—whose story we’re in—
the film is in limbo. Writers need to know whose story we’re in in order to
create the right ⊗ for that character and get it up and going. audiences,
and writers, need to know who is climbing the mountain, hence whose shoes
we are inside. giving this job to the wrong character can make ⊗ and char-
acterisation fall apart.
But who is the ⊛?
While the ⊛ is central to the conventional paradigm, and film-
makers are always talking about this character, it can actually be very difficult
to work out who the ⊛ is, both in your own story material and in
films generally. For example, who is the single ⊛ in Thelma and
Louise? in Pulp Fiction? in The Big Chill? Conventional screenwriting theory
78
Protagonists and characters who seem like protagonists but are not 79
is often quite vague on the topic. here is what is generally accepted about the
⊛.
•
There is only one ⊛.
•
The film is the ⊛’s story, the ⊛ is who the film is
‘about’.
•
The ⊛ is on screen most of the time.
•
The ⊛ is the most interesting character.
•
The ⊛ drives the action and makes the decisions.
•
The ⊛ is not passive and reactive.
•
The ⊛ has a normal person’s point of view.
•
The ⊛ is the person whose head we are inside, whose shoes
we are in and with whom we identify.
•
The ⊛ does not die (except occasionally at the very end of
the film, as in Thelma and Louise or The English Patient, because they
have to be around at the end of their own story. The film Il Postino
has the ⊛’s death followed by a sort of coda, or ⊩).
•
The ⊛ is the one whose life is being made difficult and the
person who is making it difficult for them is the ⊣.
•
The ⊛ is central to the film’s dramatic high points and is the
one climbing the three-act mountain.
•
The action line cannot start until the ⊛ is established.
•
The ⊛ is the person who changes most, who goes on a
spiritual journey of change and growth, learning as a result of the
film’s action.
•
Whoever speaks in ⊞-over is the ⊛ for the duration of
the flashback.
•
The ⊛ is the ⊛ in both action and relationship
lines.
as soon as you start to test this definition, you run into problems because,
for a start, while the conventional wisdom is that a film can only have one
⊛, actually many films have multiple protagonists. as we’ll see later,
all of the parallel ⊚ forms (tandem, multiple ⊛, double jour-
neys, double ⊚ flashback, consecutive stories and fractured tandem)
have multiple protagonists, but so do buddy movies.
if you think that in buddy films like Thelma and Louise and the Lethal
Weapon series both buddies seem to be playing the part of ⊛, work-
ing together to evade a common enemy, you are right. in these films, both
buddies are protagonists in the action line (the adventure). however, in the
relationship line the more normal of the two (let’s call this person Buddy 1)
78
80 The 21st-Century Screenplay
always has their life made difficult by their partner, Buddy 2, who is a wild
card, moreover their erratic behaviour probably caused the adventure in the
first place. What this means is that the more normal of the two buddies (e.g.
Louise) is the ⊛ in both action and relationship lines, while Buddy
2 (e.g. Thelma) is a ⊛ in the action line, in the adventure when the
two are under attack, but an ⊣ in the relationship line. The con-
flict between the two buddies stops them from becoming Tweedledum and
Tweedledee, identical twins.
SuPerheroeS
The second way in which the definition fails to work is in the matter of the
⊛ always being not only the most interesting person in the film,
but also someone who reflects the ‘normal’ point of view and, in addition,
the character who most changes and grows. This is definitely not the case
in superhero films. in James Bond films, the most interesting character
and also the character whom the film is about, is James Bond. But Bond is
emphatically not normal, does not change and grow, and does not undertake
a journey of the spirit into self-knowledge (although Bond in Quantum of
Solace did change, to the chagrin of many fans).
ouTSIDerS
The problem doesn’t stop with superheroes. Both king kong and raymond in
Rain Man are the most interesting characters in their respective films, but both,
like Bond, are emphatically not like normal people, and neither change nor
grow, nor are able to undertake a journey into self-knowledge. The characters
who change are not these two, but the people who come into contact with them.
The rules continue to break down when applied to films like Sophie’s
Choice and The Shawshank Redemption. sophie and andy are clearly the
most interesting characters, but if we were in their shoes there wouldn’t be a
film—because we would know the surprise denouements. in these, as in Rain
Man and King Kong, it is the characters who are observing them who are nor-
mal, who change, and, as the central point of the film, are changed by them.
MenTor anTaGonISTS
There is a pattern in these films. it is that a normal, often quite weak person,
achieves spiritual growth through the influence of a mentor figure, a fascinat-
ing, enigmatic outsider with a wisdom born of pain, who, while clearly the most
interesting character in the film and the person the film is about, is neither
normal, nor a person whose shoes we can be inside, nor a person who changes
Protagonists and characters who seem like protagonists but are not 81
and grows. We see it in Rain Man, Sophie’s Choice, King Kong, The Shawshank
Redemption, The Elephant Man, Scent of a Woman, Clubland (aka Introducing
the Dwights), Jean de Florette, Dead Poets’ Society, Balzac and the Little Chinese
Seamstress, The Motorcycle Diaries, The Green Mile and many more, including,
in an evil incarnation, the hannibal Lecter films.
We can call this sort of film a ‘mentor ⊣’ film because the enig-
matic mentor figure must be depicted from the outside, as an ⊣ in
both action line and relationship line, or the film will not work. meanwhile,
a much less interesting character plays the ⊛.
Why is this necessary? Probably the easiest way to explain it is to describe a
personal experience. some years ago i was commissioned to write a feature film
about a bizarre and eccentric elderly fan dancer on a mission of revenge, from
a producer’s idea. i couldn’t understand why, in my script, this woman kept
turning into a 1950s-style housewife. eventually, i realised the reason was that
i had assumed that she, as the major character, was the ⊛. however,
in trying to get inside her head to give her the normal point of view and under-
standable motives conventional wisdom says a ⊛ must have, i had
robbed her of her personality—her eccentricity, her ‘differentness’. The defining
and interesting thing about this woman was that she was the sort of charac-
ter, like raymond in Rain Man, who defied logic and could not change. To be
depicted properly, with all the comedy and mystery that she deserved—to keep
her unpredictable ‘wild card’ identity—she had to be seen from the outside.
The problem was solved by inventing a new ⊛ who was an ordi-
nary person (a truck driver), and making the fan dancer the ⊣ in the
action and relationship lines, a person who came into his life and dragged him
into her comic journey of revenge, changing him but remaining unchanged
as the two gradually and inevitably fell in love. The fan dancer remained the
major character, but she was not the ⊛.
The most interesting character is not necessarily
the ⊛
The moral of the story is that the most interesting character is not automati-
cally the ⊛ and, most importantly, there is no status in a character
being the ⊛. your star actor does not have to play the ⊛
in a mentor ⊣ film; in fact, the best part in many films is a mentor
⊣. From a writing point of view, protagonists and antagonists are
simply technical devices for better demonstrating character. The ⊛
is the character you are inside, the ⊣ is the character you see from
the outside. some characters are better shown from the outside.
82 The 21st-Century Screenplay
it is very easy to mistake a mentor ⊣ for the ⊛ because
this sort of character is a driven, eccentric, dynamic troublemaker who is so
much more interesting than the pallid, ordinary and often very young person
who is their foil. But, as in my case, this can be disastrous, not only because
it normalises the enigmatic outsider but because it wrecks both action and
relationship lines.
To highlight this, let’s rewrite Scent of a Woman with the danger-seeking
blind war veteran as the ⊛. if we made the veteran the ⊛,
we would have to get into his head and capture his point of view and his
motives. This would make him normal and remove his danger and mystery.
having removed the mystery from the veteran by making him the protago-
nist, we have to cast the student who comes to look after him into the role of
⊣. But this person is not an ⊣. he is mild and ineffectual.
he has to be, otherwise he would stop the veteran leaving—he would prevail.
We can understand him and relate to his consternation at being stuck with
a blind man on a rampage—although it is now hard to see the new ‘normal-
ised’ veteran as somebody who would go on a rampage.
What has happened here in making the veteran the ⊛ and the
student the ⊣ is that we ended up with two ‘normal’, almost identical
people. There is no ⊖ or mystery, so the whole premise of the story starts
to fall apart because it is not believable that the veteran does what he is supposed
to do. This is exactly why my fan dancer turned into Doris Day. Wedlock is a
film that suffers from exactly this problem of a ⊛ and an ⊣
who are both ‘everyperson’. had Wedlock turned its bland thief ⊛ into
a remote, possibly psychopathic, mentor ⊣ and made his uninteresting
love interest female partner a ⊛, the film would have had a lot more
energy. Other films that might have benefited from being constructed as mentor
⊣ films are Gods and Monsters and The Insider (see pp. 438–9, 412–13).
how to pick if you have a mentor ⊣
if your film involves a normal but passive and reactive person being pulled
reluctantly into an adventure (often a physical journey as well as an emo-
tional journey) by a dominant, eccentric, unpredictable and often dangerous
teacher figure, a figure characterised by their strange behaviour or world
view, a person who is strikingly different from everyone else, who effects
great changes around them but often changes little themselves, who possesses
a unique wisdom (often born of suffering )—realise that your wild-card char-
acter is probably a mentor ⊣ and not a ⊛.
The ⊛ will be the normal person who is changed by the mentor.
Protagonists and characters who seem like protagonists but are not 83
That normal person will be the ⊛ climbing the mountain, and we
will stay in the normal person’s shoes while the teacher figure, the mentor
⊣, remains always a mystery.
stories about children with a difficult parent are usually mentor antago-
nist stories with the parent as mentor ⊣ to the child ⊛, as,
usually, are films that have someone’s name in the title. Typically, as in Scent
of a Woman and Rain Man, the mentor ⊣ takes the ⊛
on a dangerous adventure (action line) while teaching them and forging
an emotional bond (relationship line). in this sort of scenario there will be
minor antagonists whom the ⊛ and mentor evade or defeat.
sometimes, though, the mentor ⊣ figure is the first character that
comes to you (as with me in the fan dancer story). here, to properly explore
that character, you will have to invent a ‘normal’ ⊛, to be irritated
by and learn from the charismatic mentor ⊣. as we shall see, several
forms of double ⊚ flashback (that is, flashback that has a full ⊗ in
the past and a full ⊗ in the present, as in Slumdog Millionaire, Shine and
Citizen Kane) use mentor antagonists in the story set in the present). The
character in most jeopardy is usually the ⊛. notice that mentor
antagonists actively cause the adventure.
The weak ⊛ is still a ⊛
The weak ⊛ in mentor ⊣ films will still show all of the
characteristics of the ⊛ except that:
•
they do not drive the action or make the decisions
•
they are reactive rather than proactive
•
they are not the most interesting character
They are still normal, and they are still the character to whom the nine-point
smiley/Thompson model event happens, who climbs the three-act mountain
and who goes to the other world and back.
⊧ Strategy 12
IDenTIFy The ⊛
Be careful to pick the right ⊛.
Questions to ask:
•
Is the answer to the question ‘Whose story is this?’, ‘The story of the
character I think is the ⊛’? (If the story is another character’s
story, that other character might be the ⊛.)
84 The 21st-Century Screenplay
•
Is my ⊛ the PoV character?
•
Is my ⊛ leading the action and proactive not reactive (except
in mentor ⊣ stories)?
•
Is my ⊛ the ⊞ of normality?
•
Is my ⊛ around at the end of their own story?
•
Does my ⊛ make the decisions, or if not, are they being
troubled by a charismatic mentor ⊣?
•
have I established this character for the audience early on?
•
am I using flashbacks (in which case I need to look at chapters 34—41)?
•
Is the character speaking in ⊞-over the ⊛? (Because
anyone speaking in ⊞-over automatically becomes ⊛ for
the duration of the ⊞-over.)
•
Is my ⊛ centrally involved in the disturbance, first- and
second-act turning point, and ⊝?
•
Is my ⊛ the same in the action and relationship lines?
Writing mentor antagonists requires a change of
mindset
The reason you want to write about your mentor ⊣ is because you’re
fascinated by them. But, as we’ve seen, to keep them enigmatic you have to
create a ⊛ who will inevitably be a character in whom you are not
really interested and who, almost by definition, is not particularly interesting.
and not only do you have to create this rather ordinary ⊛, but you
also have to get inside their head, you have to tell the story from their point
of view and make your film their story.
The change of mental focus here can be very difficult because you need to
invest yourself into, essentially, a different film. however, if you don’t achieve
it, your enigmatic outsider will not work. keep telling yourself it is the pro-
tagonist’s story. map out their mountain. Construct the story around their
emotional journey.
The Mercutio character
in trying to identify your ⊛, beware of what i call the ‘mercutio
character’, who is not the ⊛ but initially feels as though they are.
i took the name from the friend of romeo who is unexpectedly killed early
on in Romeo and Juliet. shakespeare is often said to have killed off mercutio
because he was potentially more interesting than romeo, the hero. The mer-
cutio character is a charismatic and likeable individual who appears early in
the film and is usually a friend—sometimes a partner or spouse—of the pro-
tagonist. The death early on of this person—usually as a result of defending
Protagonists and characters who seem like protagonists but are not 85
or assisting the ⊛—forms the first-act turning point, impelling
the ⊛ (who is filled with remorse and/or thoughts of vengeance)
to respond in a way that drives the story forward. in the basic smiley/
Thompson model, this death is the surprise which becomes the obstacle.
Classic mercutio characters are the young man who dies in The Battleship
Potemkin, the first woman murdered in Psycho, and the British soldier killed
in The Crying Game. The mercutio character is actually an ⊣.
In most films your ⊛ will conform to
the conventional model
mostly, your ⊛ in a conventional ⊚ will not be a mentor
⊣. They will be a normal proactive ⊛ who conforms to the
list above. however, check that your material is not inherently a buddy movie,
an ensemble or double journey film, a superhero film or a film involving a
mercutio character or a mentor ⊣. ensemble and double journey
films require parallel ⊚ forms.
Things to remember about protagonists
•
The most interesting character in the film is not necessarily the
⊛, they can be a mentor ⊣, with a less interesting
character being the ⊛.
•
There is no extra status involved in one character rather than
another being the ⊛; both are technical devices. staying
on the outside of a character creates mystery, and sometimes the
most interesting character is interesting precisely because they are a
mystery (like raymond, sophie and andy). Frequently, the star of the
film (in every sense) is the mentor ⊣.
•
mercutio characters can confuse you. Their job is to create the
first-act turning point crisis for the real ⊛, usually by their
death. you can pick them because they die or disappear from the
action early.
•
you can have multiple protagonists but you will probably need a
parallel ⊚ form (see Part 4).
Chapter 10
one ⊛, many antagonists
The TeChniCaL, sTOryTeLLing reasOn that you need to know
your antagonists is so that you can depict them from the outside as threats to
your ⊛, thus creating the drama of the film.
antagonists become easier to understand and identify once you realise
that a conventional three-act film has only one ⊛ but two or more
antagonists. This is because there has to be one ⊣ in the relationship
line and at least one ⊣ in the action line. spy films show this pattern
very clearly. For example, in a James Bond film Bond is the ⊛ and
the action line will typically show an arch-villain as Bond’s major ⊣,
with minor antagonists in the form of henchmen who appear in ⊟ for
Bond to defeat. meanwhile, Bond’s relationship line will involve a beautiful
female ⊣ who usually starts out as his enemy but ends up his lover.
While we tend to think of antagonists as creatures of the action line, in
fact the most complex antagonists are actually relationship-line antagonists.
For this reason we will look at them first. But before doing so, we can estab-
lish a number of important facts about antagonists generally.
General facts about antagonists
•
as we have seen above while looking at the mentor ⊣,
antagonists are not necessarily less interesting than protagonists; in
fact they are often the reason the film is written. a major ⊣
must be at least an equal match for the ⊛ and is often
stronger.
•
antagonists (particularly minor antagonists) often die before the
end of the film. major antagonists die only at the end (but see also
mercutio character above).
•
While antagonists need not be the ⊛’s enemy (indeed, they
can be friends or lovers), antagonists always cause trouble or change
for the ⊛. Their job is to create a ⊖ situation, often a
major life change for the ⊛, thereby driving the ⊗.
86
one ⊛, many antagonists 87
•
a rule of thumb for picking an ⊣ is to look for situations
in which one character is causing another character problems and
behaving in a way no normal or reasonable person would. The
instigator will normally be the ⊣, and the person being
caused problems will be the ⊛.
•
The ⊣ is powerfully driven and the ⊣’s wishes, at
least initially, are directly opposed to the ⊛’s.
•
mentor antagonists are characters best seen from the outside. They
feel as if they may be protagonists but in fact, they actually cause
trouble to a weaker or less interesting ⊛.
•
multiple antagonists (and multiple protagonists) often occur in
parallel ⊚ films, where typically the films focus on many
different points of view. i deal with these later in the section on
parallel ⊚.
relationship-line antagonists
so, there are action-line antagonists and relationship-line antagonists. We’ll
deal with the latter first.
On a very practical note, relationship-line antagonists are very use-
ful because their presence with the ⊛ permits the ⊛’s
thoughts to be transmitted to the audience by way of ⊘. Plots involv-
ing lone protagonists often create a relationship line between the ⊛
and the main action-line ⊣ in order to give the film some emotional
content. This has the practical side effect of allowing both to discuss their
plans and feelings. This happens in The Fugitive, in which the marshall starts
out an enemy and gradually comes to respect the ⊛ and believe
in his innocence. Other antagonists in The Fugitive are the one-armed man
and, in an interesting twist, the doctor’s friend (who looked initially like a
relationship- line ⊣), who turns out to be an enemy. This phenom-
enon also occurs in The Juror, in which the Demi moore character and the
criminal hunting her become involved in an intense emotional relationship.
loVe, FrIenDShIP anD ClIChé
Often ⊛ and relationship-line ⊣ start out enemies in the rela-
tionship line and end up friends or lovers. in the action line they often end up,
as in buddy movies, both fighting the action-line antagonists. Protagonists and
relationship-line antagonists so often fall in love that this is a serious danger
area for cliché and sketchy ‘love interest’. Writers have to work very hard to rein-
vent the ⊣–⊛ love affair and inject it with genuine suspense,
86
88 The 21st-Century Screenplay
particularly in action movies or romantic comedies, because the moment audi-
ences see a warring couple engaged in a comic or dramatic adventure, they
suspect the ⊥ is going to provide reconciliation and true love. One way of
creating change is via ‘the prude turns action hero’ model.
The PruDe TurnS aCTIon hero
antagonists of all sorts always cause the ⊛ trouble. That’s their job:
they are antagonistic. The ‘prude who becomes an action hero’ or, more pre-
cisely, ‘the prude who becomes a sexually unrepressed action hero’ causes
trouble through changing from being meek to being highly aggressive. such
characters are normally women, and part of their transformation involves
rejecting sexual repression and becoming openly sexual. Typical examples
are rose in The African Queen, Thelma in Thelma and Louise, Lotte, Craig’s
wife, in Being John Malkovich and, in True Lies, helen, the wife of the arnold
schwarzenegger character. Characters like this normally come into their own
in the ⊪, and it is here that their extreme change causes major prob-
lems for the ⊛.
To help avoid cliché in your relationship line, you could take the idea of
an extreme change seen in the ‘prude to action hero’ and invent other kinds
of character transformations that could cause the ⊛ trouble. For
example, you could reverse prude to action hero to make your relationship
line ⊣ be an action hero turned into prude, or an atheist who finds
religion, or a conservative who becomes revolutionary and so on. simply
brainstorm notions of profound character change. always make sure that
⊖ between the ⊣ and ⊛ in a relationship line is pro-
ductive, driving the ⊗, and does not turn into redundant bickering.
The loaDeD Gun
it can help with developing relationship-line antagonists to think of them as
‘loaded guns’, people who could change in many and unexpected ways, and
do. in Thelma and Louise, Thelma’s transformation causes tragedy, but track-
ing the deeds of ‘prude to action hero’ antagonists is often used successfully
for comedy. This happens in The African Queen and True Lies.
relationship-line antagonists don’t always change, of course. in Planes,
Trains and Automobiles, it is the tense, fastidious ⊛ who changes.
notice that the dramatic value, the impact, of the ⊣’s change lies
in its unpredictability. The ⊛ in a film always changes. We expect
and understand their change, partly because we see it from the inside, from
the ⊛’s point of view, and partly because the change is more logical
one ⊛, many antagonists 89
because the ⊛ is a normal person, with a normal point of view.
Louise’s change in Thelma and Louise is a logical result of what happens to the
two women on their journey. given Louise’s personal history, her behaviour
is utterly logical. This is quite unlike Thelma’s behaviour, where the change
from innocent prude to action hero could not have been predicted. so, make
sure your ⊣’s transformation is utterly unexpected. Don’t seed an
expectation of it.
action-line antagonists
action-line antagonists are normally a lot simpler to write than relationship-
line antagonists. They typically change little and, in extreme forms, like the
robot ⊣ in Terminator II, are so focused on one aim that they are
physically unstoppable.
action lines usually have a number of antagonists. This is particularly nec-
essary in films where the action line places the major ⊣ at a physical
distance from the ⊛. in these cases you need agents of the major
⊣ close to the ⊛ causing them trouble. This is obvious in
action movies (in James Bond films, mr Big obviously needs heavies on the
ground to harrass Bond) ⊮ also applies in more subtle films. in Thelma
and Louise the main antagonists are the hunter, the sheriff, other lawmen and
Thelma’s husband, but these are all at a distance so there needs to be more
antagonists close at hand. The rapist, the hitchhiker, the highway patrolman,
and the boorish truck driver all fulfil this function.
if your film has an ⊣ at a physical distance from the ⊛,
you will need either to create secondary antagonists who can cause trouble
at close hand or find a way to bring the major ⊣ into close physical
proximity.
non-huMan ForCe aS ⊣
an ⊣ in an action line can be a force of nature (for example, a volcano
or a hurricane) or a social force (for example, class prejudice), ⊮ normally
has human agents, actual people whose actions help the non-human force to
cause the ⊛ trouble. in The African Queen the river is an antago-
nist, but there are human antagonists in the form of the german army and
navy. Often, films that have a non-human enemy are mission films involv-
ing a group of characters on a quest to save humanity. in this instance, the
antagonism occurs within the group so there is not as great a need for exter-
nal human antagonists. Films like these are usually structured in multiple
⊛/⊣ form, a parallel ⊚ form, which we look at later.
90 The 21st-Century Screenplay
⊧ Strategy 13
IDenTIFy The ⊣
Pick the right ⊣(s) for the relationship and action lines.
Questions to ask:
General
•
are my antagonists characters that make life difficult for the ⊛?
•
am I depicting my antagonists from the outside?
•
am I mistaking a Mercutio character for a major ⊣?
•
Do my major antagonists at least equal the ⊛ in strength,
intelligence etc.?
•
are my antagonists powerfully driven with wishes that are, at least
initially, directly opposed to the ⊛’s?
Flashbacks and ensemble stories/multiple ⊣ structure
•
Does my film use flashback ⊚ or have a group involved in a
mission, reunion or siege? If so, it might need a parallel ⊚
structure (see Part 4).
relationship-line ⊣
•
are my ⊣ and ⊛ sufficiently different from each other?
•
Is there ⊖, emotional involvement of some kind, and increasing
closeness?
•
If I have a love affair, is it clichéd and am I creating an ⊣ that
is merely a ‘love interest’?
•
Is the ⊛/⊣ ⊖ productive rather than just being
redundant bickering?
•
Does my ⊣ assist the ⊛ in action-line battles against a
common enemy?
•
are the changes my ⊣ goes through interesting but credible,
‘real but unusual’? Further to this, am I using a ‘prude who turns into
action hero’ model and, if so, is it a ‘real but unusual’ rendering? Should
I incorporate some other massive character turnabout (for example,
‘atheist finds religion’)?
action-line antagonists
•
If my action-line ⊣ is remote from the action, do they have
agents?
•
alternatively, do they start to get emotionally closer to the ⊛?
•
If my action-line ⊣ is non-human, does it have human agents?
Mentor antagonists
•
Is my ⊣ a mentor? If so, do they teach the ⊛ new
values?
•
am I depicting the mentor ⊣ from the outside so that they can
remain a mystery?
•
Should they be the ⊣ in both the action and relationship lines?
91
Chapter 11
Characterisation
in FiLm, a CharaCTer is what it does (whereas in fiction a character
tends to be what it observes and thinks). While character in film must always
be demonstrated through a story, this is exactly what most writers find the
hardest thing to do—to invent and construct a story that will illustrate their
characters in a way that interests the world. This is because for every writer
who is inspired by ⊗ but who struggles with character, there will be twenty
who struggle with ⊗ but are terrific at character. hence, the main problem
for most writers is not to find characters but to control them.
Writers often spend massive amounts of time exploring their charac-
ters’ pasts and inner states, but do it in a vacuum, in isolation from the ⊗.
They get into character like actors into a pre-existing role; something that is
exhausting (although extremely interesting), but very often doesn’t actually
transfer to the script—it doesn’t lead to the creation of a chain of events that
actually demonstrates that character’s personality on the screen. This might
be best understood by an example from television writing: you can spend a
huge amount of time creating character profiles but at some point you need
to invent plots for episodes, the stories that will actually depict your charac-
ters being what you intend them to be.
Character exploration is always lengthy, so it must be time well spent. To
make sure your character exploration actually transfers to your plotlines, giv-
ing you scenes that genuinely illustrate your characters, i’d suggest that you
begin not as many experts suggest, by working from the inside out, from a
character’s psychology to their actions, spending a lot of time looking at char-
acters in isolation from the story in which they appear, but that instead you
work more intuitively, feeling your way back from your characters’ actions to
their motivation, using your storylines (even thought they might not yet be
fully developed) as if you were a police psychologist using a suspect’s behav-
iour as a way to get inside their heads. Think about what your characters do
and might do, rather than what they are. For example, rather than decide
that your character is ‘insecure’ in the abstract, think what actions in your
91
92 The 21st-Century Screenplay
existing ⊗ might already indicate insecurity, or how you might angle the
⊗ to demonstrate insecurity. ⊧ strategy 14 will help here.
⊧ Strategy 14
FInD ouT WhaT The ⊗ TellS you aBouT
CharaCTerS
Work out a broad outline of your characters’ personalities through what you
can deduce through your ⊗.
Questions to ask:
•
What do I know about my character from their actions?
•
how would my character react in situations involving danger, love,
aggression, temptation etc?
•
What would my character never do?
When you have found out what your ⊗ is telling you about your character,
you can start to use a ‘character chart’ to work out the psychological cause of
the behaviour. a character chart is a dossier on a character’s past and present,
containing their public, private and inner lives. Character charts involve you
listing, methodically, details about the character’s past life. They help you to
make your characters more complex and more original. They also help you
to avoid clichés, particularly in minor characters, which can creep in just
because there is so much else to think about in a script. Character charts are
a very tedious job, but, in the ⊦ of all the drudgery, you will suddenly
have new insights and think of new and useful aspects of the character that
you can use.
Figure 11.1 shows the sort of chart that might help. There will be overlap
between public and private qualities. For example, ‘has trouble mixing’ has
both a public and private dimension. This is not a problem because the point
of the chart is not to separate the public and private, merely to force consid-
eration of them.
Charts work to help you get inside your character by throwing stimuli at
the lateral imagination to create ‘real but unusual’ connections. Connections
may not happen immediately, but persist and they will.
Character ⊧ is an ongoing process that should occur simulta-
neously with structural planning. it takes time. it is often only after a couple
of drafts that a character’s motivation will be entirely clear or you will fully
understand the human foibles that are being depicted in the script.
Characterisation 93
Character demands in the script as a whole
The audience needs to know (so your chart needs to tell you):
•
where the character has come from psychologically (social and family
background)
•
the character’s weaknesses, strengths, areas of vulnerability
•
the public roles of the character—job, family etc.
•
current events driving the character
Character demands in each ⊕
The audience needs to know:
•
what the character wants out of each ⊕
•
who has the power in the ⊕
•
what the character is trying to hide in each ⊕
Past Present
Personal Public Internal Personal Public Internal
Date, place Class of Personality Family Job? Problems
of birth? family? flaws? still alive? Financial at work or
Where grew Education? Contact, state? socially?
What
up? good or bad, How good at
How secrets? Grudges?
with family? job?
Family? family was What did Secrets?
How happy
regarded? this person Has partner? Fears?
Relationships in job?
hate talking Children?
with family? How Enjoys Damage
about? Where lives
character workplace? carried from
Unpleasant Emotional and lifestyle?
came across Fits in past, if any?
and pleasant crises in
to others? Any personal socially
aspects of childhood? What does
crises at the and in
childhood? What jobs? this person
moment? workplace?
Hobbies? hate talking
Major family
Political/ Hobbies? about?
events in
social Political
childhood? Optimist or
beliefs? beliefs?
pessimist?
Shy or Passions?
outgoing? Pet hates?
Crucial Ambitions?
events
Shy or
witnessed?
outgoing?
People most
loves, hates,
pities, fears?
Figure 11.1 Character chart
94 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Use ⊧ strategy 15 to help you with character charts.
⊧ Strategy 15
GeT InTo CharaCTer
Devise character charts by asking who, why and how, remembering
to think ‘real but unusual’. you need to think about the ⊛/
⊣’s background, how it might drive their motives, and how they
try to fulfil their aims.
Questions to ask:
•
Do I understand these characters well enough?
•
are they and their dilemmas ‘real but unusual’?
•
am I unconsciously giving them clichéd motives or actions? If so, how
can I pull against the cliché?
MakInG your CharaCTerS Talk
many writers feel that making the character speak helps them to better
understand their character. Do this by creating a ⊕ that puts your char-
acter in a stressful situation but which cannot occur in your film (or you will
want to keep it). Write a ⊕ about, say, how they would react to someone
pushing ahead of them in a queue.
FInDInG InTereSTInG CharaCTerS anD aVoIDInG
ClIChéS
To avoid clichéd characters or to kick-start your creativity if you are feeling
exhausted with the script, try the following methods.
•
Think of a new version of a character from myth, fairytale, fable or
genre. Look in newspapers, especially articles and advertisements, for
characters or roles that sound interesting.
•
Think of a social stereotype and pull against it.
•
Consider new versions of archetypes; for example, Christopher
Vogler’s archetypes in the hero’s journey (see Chapter 3).
•
Think of putting opposite personalities in ⊖.
•
Define a character through its flaws.
⊠ and inner/outer story
as we’ve seen above, the action line permits the relationship line to happen.
so far i have been talking as if all of the ⊗ material about the ⊛’s
interpersonal relationships amounts to one thing called ‘the relationship line’.
Characterisation 95
The relationship line is actually made up of two interwoven plotlines.
1 The ⊛’s external dealings with people close to him/her
(for example, the external incidents in The African Queen that show
rose and allnutt falling in love).
2 ‘The ⊠’; that is, the ⊛’s internal journey
(emotional, psychological and spiritual) caused by events in the action
line and relationship line (the internal changes that take place in rose
and allnutt as a result of the love and the adventure on the river).
some films have a third component to the relationship line, the inner/outer
story component i mentioned earlier, whereby a ⊛’s inner flaw cre-
ates the action line. We’ll look at that in a moment.
The ⊠ (the ⊛’s changing
heart)
Think of the ⊠ as ‘the ⊛’s changing heart’. if the story
is a feature film, the ⊠ is the emotional and psychological jour-
ney travelled by the character in the whole film. if it is a thirteen-part
tele vision series, it is the journey travelled in the whole thirteen episodes.
if it is a feature film trilogy, such as Lord of the Rings, it is the journey trav-
elled in the entire trilogy. The ⊠ occurs in response to the action
line (the adventure) and the relationship line (close relationships formed
or tested or both during the adventure). For example, in Tootsie, ⊯’s
⊠ tracks his growing awareness of how women are exploited
and his increasing understanding and appreciation of his feminine side.
sometimes his increasing awareness happens as a result of actions in the
relationship line (where he is interacting with a number of people he either
loves or who want some kind of romantic or sexual relationship with him).
sometimes it happens as a result of events he experiences in the action line
(which is, the ⊗ involving him passing himself off as a female actor in a
soap opera).
as we’ve seen, some film cultures prefer the emotional/psychological
journey to be a positive one towards self-knowledge and emotional growth.
Other cultures prefer a negative journey. most films (apart from superhero
films) need character change to give the film point, depth and interest.
how character arcs can improve your film
specifically, character arcs can help where the film is starting to slow or
meander; where there are clearly characters in search of a ⊗; or where the
characters seem two-dimensional. They can:
96 The 21st-Century Screenplay
•
create a proper ⊗ by pointing to the kind of actions that are
necessary to depict the movement of the character through its arc
(for example, if you have a town full of characters in search of a
story, finding the ⊠ of your ⊛ and other main
characters will suggest actions and events that you can craft into a
compelling story)
•
make a character more complex, interesting and emotionally
engaging (a character who is unchanging can only grab the audience
through their actions, whereas a character that is performing actions
and also changing as a result of their actions can interest the audience
on several levels)
•
focus the film thematically, hence enrich it and deepen it
how to pick or create the ⊠
sometimes this is easy because the story will come with a ready-made char-
acter arc, as in Tootsie, where the ⊗ is clearly all about a man whose actions
make him become more sensitive to women. But in other stories you might
have to search out or even invent a ⊠. This is often the case in
action films, ⊮ can also be true of films that are all about relationships.
For example, you might be writing an intense film about a marriage break-
up, but have got so immersed in creating events and quarrels that you have
lost sight of the exact journey that each of the partners is travelling emotion-
ally. This is likely to mean that your film won’t really have a point or a focus. it
may end up a ⊟ of intense, realistic but ultimately repetitive quarrels.
some action movies don’t need character arcs, but a surprising number do
have them and they can often add another and very interesting dimension
to the film.
To create or find a ⊠, work out where, emotionally and psy-
chologically, you want your character to finish, then work out from that
where you want them to start. The bigger the ⊠ the more dra-
matic the film. Characters in art-house films have smaller character arcs.
Create a simple, logical step-by-step list of the characters’ emotional move-
ment from the start of the film to the end. The start of the film will be their
furthest point from change. The ⊝ will be the precise moment of final
change.
Look for places in the action line and relationship line where you can
show the changes. Use ⊧ strategy 16 to help.
Characterisation 97
⊧ Strategy 16
CreaTe a ⊠
Create a ⊠ to plan your characters’ emotional and psychological
progression.
Questions to ask:
•
Do I know where I want my characters to start and finish emotionally
and psychologically?
•
have I created a step-by-step map of the progression?
•
Can I find places in the action and relationship lines to cause and show
each step?
Inner story and outer story
For practical purposes, outer story is the action line, while inner story is a
particular kind of ⊠ that occurs in one particular kind of story in
which the film’s action line is caused specifically by a ⊛’s inner flaw.
The flaw causes a series of external events, often very dramatic, that ultimately
helps the ⊛ to overcome the inner flaw. in The Piano, ada’s inner flaw
is her refusal to talk. The outer story—the action line—is about what happens
and what she does when she is kept away from the piano. The events in the
action line (outer story) initially put her into great difficulty, but gradually help
her, in her inner story, her ⊠, to overcome her flaw, her wish for
silence. in other words, finding love with Baines makes her feel able to reject
silence. This rejection is shown in a cleverly symbolic ⊕ in which ada is
accidentally dragged overboard by the sinking piano. Faced with the option
of being pulled into death and eternal silence by the piano, she consciously
rejects silence by releasing her foot from the rope that links her to the piano.
Inner STory/ouTer STory FIlMS haVe TWo enDInGS
The big structural difference about inner story/outer story films is that they
have two climaxes; the ⊝ of the outer story (the action line) and the cli-
max of the inner story (the ⊠). The outer story has its ⊝ first,
with the external events caused by the flaw resolved. The inner-story ⊝
comes afterwards, with the ⊛ understanding the error of their ways
and rejecting the flaw. There can be a dangerous loss of pace between the two
climaxes—something you can feel in The Piano as a hiatus, an anticlimax,
between stewart letting ada go with Baines and the sinking-piano ⊕. Try
to make the two climaxes happen as close together as you can, or the film
will flag.
98 The 21st-Century Screenplay
some theorists would take inner story and outer story further, arguing
that it is present in all films. This seems to work on the assumption that all
films are optimistic, but many cultures are fatalistic and this is reflected in
their films.
‘Character-driven’ films
Before we leave character issues, we need to look at the notion of the
‘character- driven’ film. ‘Character-driven’ is a much-misunderstood term.
Properly, it means ‘action line driven by the demands of the character’. it
means that character dictates the action line and that the function of the
action line is to demonstrate character. Thus, a James Bond ⊗ will be care-
fully invented and put together to give James Bond the opportunity to react
as only James Bond would. a mr Bean ⊗ will be carefully constructed to
give mr Bean the chance to behave as only mr Bean would. The action line
must permit the character to display what is characteristic about them.
Unfortunately, character-driven is often taken to mean ‘you don’t need
an action line ⊗; just put an interesting group together and you will have a
film’. This results in characters in search of a ⊗, technically speaking; char-
acters locked into an endlessly repeating normality, just being themselves.
Fascinating as they may be (or rather, fascinating as they may be for us as
writers to write, because they are actually not fascinating to watch), char-
acters in a film can’t just stand around behaving normally or wander about
bumping into each other and talking (it’s surprising how many unsuccess-
ful films are exactly that). They need a strong action line to illustrate their
character in action and, to interweave those stories, very careful planning.
even restrained art-house films like Meantime, The Station Agent, Children
of Heaven and Samson and Delilah have action lines to demonstrate their
characters. Film is not about character, but character demonstrated through
action.
99
Chapter 12
The plan and first-act turning
point
The PLan is The ⊛’s response to the disturbance, and the first-
act turning point (the surprise that turns into the obstacle) is a shock that
turns that plan upside down. The complications constitute the ⊪,
which is, at base, a series of incidents that happen in response to the distur-
bance, thereby taking the ⊛ to their lowest point.
The plan has a very important function. it has to mislead the audience so
that the first-act turning point comes as the biggest surprise it can be. it’s very
useful if the first-act turning point is as big a shock as possible (as long as it’s
credible) because the bigger the shock the more energy you are injecting into
the film, hence the more fuel you have to drive the story for its one hundred
minutes.
a film with an excellent plan section is The Player, in which the protago-
nist puts into play an elaborate plan to prevent himself from being harmed
and, in a shock that comes completely out of the blue (the shock being the
first-act turning point), he ends up harming someone else, and this act on his
part drives the rest of the story.
it’s very easy to forget to lead the audience away from the first-act turn-
ing point. since you, as writer, know what’s going to happen in the story and
are concentrating on trying to make it happen, you can find yourself writing
towards, rather than away from the first-act turning point surprise, thereby
reducing its impact. For example, in The Player, this would have resulted in
the ⊛ stating aloud his fears that he might harm someone.
a more common problem is not giving your characters sufficient to do
between the disturbance and the first-act turning point surprise, so they are
more or less hanging around waiting for the surprise to happen. remem-
ber that your characters do not know that the surprise/obstacle is about to
happen, so think how they might logically react to the disturbance, brain-
storming possible responses, and find credible plans that make the story look
as if it will go in the opposite direction from the path it actually takes. For
example, if you were writing a modern-day Jack and the Beanstalk story, you
99
100 The 21st-Century Screenplay
would make much of Jack’s plans to retrieve the cow so that the beanstalk
came as a shock. your plan section will be short, but effective. Both action
line and relationship line have a plan in response to the disturbance, and in
each a plan that misleads the audience will inject great power into the first-
act turning point.
⊧ Strategy 17
InSerT a MISleaDInG Plan
Brainstorm a logical, credible response for the ⊛ to have to the
disturbance that will lead the audience off track so that the first-act turning
point comes as more of a surprise.
Questions to ask:
•
have I got a good ‘false’ plan?
•
am I really leading the audience off track?
•
Do I have plan sections in both action and relationship lines?
The first-act turning point (what the film is
‘about’)
Fascinatingly, if you ask people what happens in a film—what it’s ‘about’
in terms of scenario—they will usually describe its first-act turning point
⊕. They will say that Thelma and Louise is about ‘two women going
away on holiday who shoot a rapist and go on the run’. They will say that
Tootsie is about ‘an actor who dresses up as a woman to get a part’. What
they are actually picking is the part of the set-up that creates the start of the
world-seizing story. in terms of the basic smiley/Thompson model, they
are picking the surprise that will turn into the obstacle. What this means in
practical, diagnostic terms is that, in a conventional linear film, your first-
act turning point ⊕ will contain the essence of the film’s appeal. it will
be what makes it original and interesting. it will be what your film is ‘about’,
scenario-wise.
arguably, the first-act turning point is the most important component of
your conventional ⊚ film because it delivers on screen the core ingre-
dient that will sell your film and also sets the stage for the complications that
give us the film’s story (told in the ⊪). it is also your compass, since,
if you know what your first-act turning point is you have your film—because
the first-act turning point raises a question that the rest of the film seeks
to answer, a question that is finally answered in the film’s ⊝. how will
The plan and first-act turning point 101
Thelma and Louise cope with having murdered a man? The ⊝ answers
that question: suicide.
⊝ and first-act turning point are linked. if you know your first-act
turning point you know the central issue of your ⊝, and if you know
your ⊝ you can infer your first-act turning point.
if your first-act turning point ⊕ is boring or doesn’t really connect to
your ⊝, either you haven’t picked the natural first-act turning point of
your idea or you don’t yet have one (this often happens in films that origi-
nated in one interesting character). either way, you know you haven’t yet
pinned down what it is about your film that will grab an audience.
in films that flag in the ⊪, the loss of pace is often caused by a
weak or non-existent first-act turning point. The film is relying for its story
content just on a disturbance or inciting incident that is simply not interest-
ing enough to drive one and half to two hours of story.
one STrIkInG anD unPreDICTaBle ⊕
my feeling is that the first-act turning point is one (and one only) strik-
ing, unusual ⊕, often utterly unpredictable, containing one moment—a
few seconds—that shows us the world has changed for the ⊛. it
is not a feeling, not a ⊟ of events (although it may be preceded by a
⊟ of causative events); it is a physical event that shocks the audience,
giving them a completely unexpected surprise. it is the moment the rapist
dies in Thelma and Louise, the moment we see ⊯ in Tootsie striding
down the street dressed up as Dorothy. it makes people sit up in their seats.
it makes them feel the film has really started. Quieter films still have their
world-changing moment, although it might not be so shocking. in Samson
and Delilah, it is the actual moment when Delilah realises her grandmother
is dead. in Children of Heaven, it is the actual moment when we see the little
boy realise he could win a pair of shoes in the foot race. in the French film
The Secret of the Grain, it is the moment we realise that the ⊛ has
decided to open a couscous restaurant. Why just one moment? Because this
is drama, not fiction, and we show rather than tell.
knowing that the first-act turning point is one world-changing moment
is enormously useful because you can pick whether you’ve got it or still need
it. Traditionally, it happens about twenty minutes into the script (frequently
earlier these days) and it turns the ⊗ in a new direction, lifting the stakes
for the ⊛ by pushing them into a new, highly emotionally charged
situation that forces them to take action in a way they did not plan.
102 The 21st-Century Screenplay
VoGler’S enTry InTo anoTher WorlD
a good way to test whether you have a first-act turning point in place is to
use Christopher Vogler’s idea that the ⊛ enters a new world, physi-
cal or metaphorical, or both, at the first-act turning point, stepping into it in
that one crucial moment of truth.
Do Thelma and Louise enter a new world at their first-act turning point?
yes: the moment the man dies, they step into the world of the fugitive. Does
⊯ enter a new world at his first-act turning point? yes: the moment he
starts posing as a woman, he steps into the world of women and the world
of deceit and lies. Do the protagonists in Samson and Delilah, Children of
Heaven and The Secret of the Grain enter a new world? yes. if your protago-
nist is not forced into a new world by the first-act turning point, you haven’t
yet got a proper first-act turning point.
lInDa SeGer on TurnInG PoInTS
Linda seger has interesting material on turning points in Making a Good
Script Great, in which she explains that a turning point should kick the action
into an unexpected direction, push the ⊛ deeper into the problem
and raise the central question again but with added, surprising complications.
The SurPrISe ThaT TurnS InTo The oBSTaCle
a crucial part of the surprise is that it turns into the obstacle that drives the
rest of the film. This part of the smiley/Thompson structure is an absolute
gem. Whatever your surprise is, it must become the film’s central problem,
and if it can’t, it’s not a first-act turning point and you will need either to add
some element to it, or to find a new one.
it’s very easy to invent a surprise which is definitely interesting and defi-
nitely surprising but which has nothing to do with the rest of the film, so
check it in the following way. if your planned first-act turning point is a per-
son getting sacked, ask: ‘is my film about what happens to someone who gets
sacked?’ if it is, fine. if it isn’t, you haven’t yet got your first-act turning point,
you’ve just got an unconnected surprise and that will not give you the big
problem that will fill up two hours of screen time.
Compare Thelma and Louise. if we ask the question ‘is Thelma and Louise
about what happens to two women who shoot a rapist?’, the answer is yes.
The same is true of Tootsie. ‘is Tootsie about an actor who dresses up as a
woman to get a part?’ yes, it is. you may spend a long while finding a good
first-act turning point.
The plan and first-act turning point 103
Don’T Delay The FIrST-aCT TurnInG PoInT
a delayed first-act turning point can cause boredom and massively damage a
film—as in Prelude to a Kiss, where it appears about an hour into the film (see
pp. 416–17). a story with a very lengthy set-up might be better told in parallel
⊚ (see how Prelude to a Kiss might have worked in a non-linear structure
pp. 417–18).
Make Sure The DISTurBanCe leaDS To IT
Crucially, the first-act turning point can only happen directly or indirectly
because of the film’s disturbance, so choose a disturbance that will give you
the first-act turning point you need.
⊧ Strategy 18
FInD The FIrST-aCT TurnInG PoInT ⊕ (SurPrISe/
oBSTaCle)
Make sure the surprise is an actual, physical surprise—an event—and that
the ⊛’s change of heart or decision is triggered by this physical
surprise. also make sure the ⊕ represents an entry in another world by
the ⊛, either physically or metaphorically.
Questions to ask:
•
have I made the ⊛ experience a physical, world-changing
surprise in one ⊕ at about twenty minutes into the film (possibly
earlier)?
•
Does my surprise cause/turn into the obstacle that drives the rest of the
film?
•
Does my surprise raise the question that the rest of the film explores?
•
Does my first-act turning point have all the effects described by linda
Seger?
•
Is my first-act turning point ⊕ what the film is ‘about’ in terms of
scenario?
•
Is my first-act turning point the moment when the ⊛ enters
another world physically or metaphorically?
Chapter 13
The ⊪
The ⊪—The FiLm’s ⊦—is universally regarded as the
hardest part of the script to write. While writing Don Giovanni, considered
by many to be the greatest opera of all time, mozart wrote in despair to his
father that he was utterly stuck in the ⊪ and felt as if he’d never finish
it. if the ⊪ had mozart fazed, perhaps the rest of us can take heart.
It’s all about complications and things getting
worse
all of the many theories about how to write the ⊪ come down to
finding a range of complications in the ⊛’s story that keep it power-
fully interesting for an hour of screen time, then lead it to a gripping third
act, which is the ⊛’s battle to win against the odds.
Linda seger has excellent material in Making a Good Script Great on dif-
ferent sorts of obstructions and other ways of creating a compelling second
and third act. These include, using her terms: barriers, reversals and compli-
cations; methods for choosing the right settings and scenarios; using ⊕
sequences to bump up the pace; using foreshadowing and payoff; and many
other practical and detailed methods to tackle the business of stymying the
⊛. This is obligatory reading. another useful concept is the mid-
point, first, i believe, pinpointed by syd Field and picked up by people like
Jack epps Jnr as a point midway through the ⊪ when the story takes
a radical twist.
in an online interview on 13 november 2008, ⊯ halperin, who
wrote Writing the ⊪, adds a different and very useful perspective by
observing that the ⊪ ‘involves suspicions, miscues, anxieties, game
plan and all the other elements comprising the dramatic romantic and com-
edy genre’.
robert mckee takes another and very useful slant by explaining second-
act mechanics in terms of different sorts of ⊖ impelling complications
and forward story movement. as we’ve seen, Christopher Vogler describes
104
The ⊪ 105
the ⊪ as a journey into another world and suggests archetypes that
people it and actions that occur as the ⊛ seeks a real or meta-
phorical treasure. This is very useful because it provides the ⊛ and
other characters with an agenda that writers can simply flesh out. These are
just some of the many approaches to the ⊪, all of which deserve
investigation.
The ⊪ is the story
While all writers acknowledge the importance of the ⊫ in creating a
good set-up for the ⊪, the ⊪ itself tends to be regarded in
isolation, as a trackless desert in the film’s ⊦ through which we have to
struggle before the third act and ⊡.
however, rather than thinking of the ⊪ as the film’s ⊦, it’s
more useful and accurate to think of it as the real start of the story, as making
up most of the story, following on from a first-act set-up and ⊥ at the
moment a long way down the line at the second-act turning point, when the
⊛ decides to fight back against the odds in a final battle that ends
in the film’s ⊝.
if we look at the ⊪ this way we can see that, as i’ve said earlier,
many scripts that start to fall apart in the ⊪ do so not so much
because the ⊪ is hard to write but because the script didn’t have a
strong enough story in the first place. it did not have a story sufficiently inter-
esting to be elaborated upon and developed for an hour-long ⊪. Our
world-seizing story actually begins properly only in act two.
WorkInG FroM The ouTSIDe In
The first-act turning point sets up what the story is ‘about’, and the second
and third acts tell that story. Because the story really starts at the ⊪,
i suggest looking at the ⊪ in terms of what frames it—working from
the outside in, calculating the needs of the ⊪ by reference to the
first-act turning point at one end, and the second-act turning point at the
other. each of these in its different way is enormously useful with content
and construction of the ⊪.
GeTTInG GooD CoMPlICaTIonS FroM The FIrST-aCT
TurnInG PoInT
Use the first-act turning point plus logic to get good complications. if you use
your lateral imagination to get ideas for complications you will find it time
consuming and ineffective. also, you will tend to grab the first half-decent
104
106 The 21st-Century Screenplay
ideas that come to you. instead, use your vertical imagination and, using
the first-act turning point, ask yourself ‘What logically could happen to a
⊛ faced with the problem mine is faced with at the first-act turning
point?’, then list as many ‘real but unusual’ ways as possible that this goal or
problem could be obstructed, creating ⊖ of an emotional or physical
kind for the ⊛.
Take Tootsie. here, the ⊛’s goal or problem at the first-act turn-
ing point is that he is impersonating a woman for professional success. if
you ask what obstructions could happen to a man who is trying to pass
himself off as a woman, you can get a long list of possible complications in
less than a minute. For example: the ⊛ falls in love with a woman
and can’t declare his love; the ⊛ declares his love for the woman
and the woman thinks he’s a lesbian; a man who thinks the ⊛ is a
woman falls in love with him; a man who thinks the ⊛ is a woman
tries to press physical advances on him; the ⊛ is mistaken for a
cross-dresser; the ⊛ finds keeping make-up and costume in order
difficult and time-consuming; the ⊛’s friends think he has deserted
them; the ⊛ is thought to be gay; a gay man makes a pass at the pro-
tagonist; a lesbian makes a pass at the ⊛; the ⊛ is raped.
apart from the last three options (which are too confronting for the light
romantic comedy that Tootsie sets out to be) the list above provides all of the
⊗ complications that actually occur in Tootsie.
The same method could have been used to find the second-act complica-
tions in The Piano. The ⊛’s problem or goal as it presents itself at
the first-act turning point is that her means of expression, the piano, is stuck
on a beach and therefore unavailable to her. her need is to get the piano back.
if you look at the second-act complications of The Piano (see pp. 121–3) you
will see that each event is an obstruction to ada’s goal of getting the piano
back to express herself, including falling in love with Baines (because by then
she wants the piano and Baines).
Make sure the complications are different
When devising second-act complications, make sure that the obstruc-
tions hindering the ⊛ are genuinely different rather than different
versions of the same obstruction. For example, in a script where the protago-
nist is shut in an underground dungeon and has to get out, three different
instances of the ⊛ being stopped by guards and killing them are not
different obstructions. They are three different versions of the same obstruc-
tion: guards. genuinely different obstructions would be the ⊛ first
The ⊪ 107
obstructed by guards, then by fear of heights, then by a booby-trapped gate,
and so on.
⊧ Strategy 19
DeVISe SeConD-aCT CoMPlICaTIonS VIa The FIrST-
aCT TurnInG PoInT
To get a range of interesting second-act complications, first define the
⊛’s dilemma after the first-act turning point, then brainstorm
as many ‘real but unusual’ ways as possible that this dilemma could be
increased. note that the dilemma can change or be added to.
Questions to ask:
•
Do I understand the problem caused for the ⊛ by the first-act
turning point?
•
am I writing obstructions that are ‘real but unusual’?
•
Do I have a lot of different obstructions rather than many versions of
the same obstruction?
•
Could I increase the obstructions by a clever twist to the ⊛’s
dilemma?
using the second-act turning point as a
destination
To understand how to use the second-act turning point as a way to find the
content of the ⊪ we need to look back at the actual mechanics of
the second-act turning point. The first part of the second-act turning point
is the closest moment to physical and emotional death, and the second part
is the decision to act. Therefore, if John is your ⊛, you know that
between the first-act turning point and the first part of the second- act turn-
ing point you have to take John to his lowest point as the direct result of
complications arising out of the first-act turning point. This means you’ve
got a clear destination for John. you might not know how you’ll get him
there, but you know where he has to be. everything in his life, personal and
public, has got to be disastrous at the first part of the second-act turning
point, after which he will decide to fight back.
BuT Why DoeS The ⊛ haVe To reaCh ThIS
naDIr?
your ⊛ has to reach this low point because your story’s got to be
more interesting and suspenseful than it was at the first-act turning point or
108 The 21st-Century Screenplay
it will fizzle (which happens in The Crying Game). if you’ve given John a fas-
cinating problem at the first-act turning point (as you should have) you have
to do something much bigger again at second-act turning point. The closest
point to disaster, to death, is as suspenseful as a story can get.
SeConD-aCT TurnInG PoInT ParT 1 (The WorST MoMenT)
Just as the first-act turning point is a physical event, one amazing ⊕, so
the ⊛’s worst possible moment is also a physical event, an actual
moment, that occurs in one ⊕. While the whole film leads up to it
and while it may occur at the end of a complex ⊟, the worst pos-
sible moment itself will be just a few seconds where the ⊛ hits
rock bottom. The worst possible moment may be something as dramatic as
the ⊛ being tortured, or having a gun put in their face. it may be
someone telling them that a loved one has died or they have lost the crucial
court case. it may be a sudden horrified understanding of something that
happened earlier on. But something visibly happens on screen. The relation-
ship line also has a worst possible moment, of course. Usually both terrible
moments happen in the same ⊕, but sometimes they happen separately.
SeConD-aCT TurnInG PoInT ParT 2 (DeCISIon To FIGhT BaCk)
The second step in the second-act turning point is that the ⊛ decides
to fight back and starts to do so. Why a decision to fight back? Because it is
vital to maintain suspense. Curiously, while an audience will get increasingly
anxious as things worsen for the ⊛, eventually they will reach a
point where they disengage emotionally and move from empathy (feeling
as if they are inside the ⊛’s shoes) to pity, where they are on the
outside of the ⊛, who is now a hopeless case, a victim. if things
continue to get worse for the ⊛, the audience can even start to get
bored and irritated, feeling preached at or otherwise manipulated.
endless disasters befalling the ⊛ slow the film right down and
alienate the audience—because, in the end, they rob the film of suspense.
suspense requires the possibility of change. if there is only hopelessness the
film becomes predictable.
To get the audience back on the edge of their seats you have to get them
emotionally engaged again with the ⊛, which means you have to
introduce hope (hence suspense). in practice, you have to turn your pro-
tagonist into a fighter. The ⊛, bruised and battered, has to decide to
fight back against impossible odds—and if the odds aren’t high enough, you
must go back and make them so.
The ⊪ 109
The ⊛ does not need to win. your ⊝ can be catastrophic
(like the ⊝ in The Secret of the Grain) or muted (as in Tulpan), but
as far as i can tell an attempt to fight back from a hopeless position at the
second-act turning point, however brief, seems to be obligatory to main-
tain suspense. Films as different as Slumdog Millionaire, Children of Heaven,
Gran Torino, Samson and Delilah and Synecdoche, New York all provide
excellent examples of a ⊛ relentlessly fighting back against impos-
sible odds; in fact, astonishing escapes are a recurring feature of Slumdog
Millionaire.
sometimes writers actually want the ⊥ of their film to be predict-
ably catastrophic, but step cautiously. make a film too predictable and people
don’t need to stay and watch.
Like the first-act turning point surprise and the second-act turning point
worst possible moment, the decision to fight back must be seen to happen
on screen. We must see the ⊛ take the first step in the battle to win
because in film we show rather than tell. The act itself can be as simple as
picking up the phone.
Parts 1 and 2 of the second-act turning point can happen in the same
⊕. Part 1 is your beacon for act two, telling you where you must take the
⊛. Part 2 helps you set up the third act.
hoW To GeT The ⊛ To The loWeST PoInT
how, then, do you get the ⊛ to their lowest point? Two things
can lead you in the wrong direction here. First of all, as we’ve seen, you can
use lateral imagination alone to think of things that can go wrong. This is
unlikely to give you the rich variety that you need. second, you can fall into
the trap of seeing complications as a ⊟ of things happening on the
same emotional plane rather than a downward progression, during which,
with increasing tension and suspense, things get worse and worse, and finally
hit rock bottom.
Proceed here by making a list of what the ⊛ has to have lost
by the second-act turning point (how things can go from bad to worse to
catastrophic). What exactly has to be lost? Their loved ones? Their credibil-
ity? Their belongings? Their safety? Their good name? Work this out, then
brainstorm how you can make it all happen. make your complications occur
in order of increasing seriousness, to create a good downwards progression.
110 The 21st-Century Screenplay
⊧ Strategy 20
SeConD-aCT TurnInG PoInT ParT 1: ⊛’S
WorST PoSSIBle MoMenT
To find the ⊛’s worst possible moment, look for the step in the
⊗ where the ⊛ reaches their lowest possible point, emotionally
and/or physically. Invent one if you don’t have one. Then make the
⊛ decide to fight back.
Questions to ask:
•
have I found the ⊛’s lowest point?
•
Do I have to invent or expand one (think ‘real but unusual’)?
•
Is my second-act turning point bigger and more dramatic than the first-
act turning point?
•
Does it fulfil the requirements of a turning point in restating the
⊛’s problem and turning them in a new direction?
•
have I shown the worst possible moment in one ⊕?
When you have got your ⊛ to their lowest ebb, use ⊧
strategy 21 to work out how to show their decision to fight back.
⊧ Strategy 21
SeConD-aCT TurnInG PoInT ParT 2: DeCISIon To
FIGhT BaCk
Make sure you have got the ⊛ to the worst possible moment, then
make them decide to fight back, and start a battle to win (that battle will
happen in the third act).
Questions to ask:
•
have I made my ⊛ decide to fight back against high odds?
•
have I started the fight-back in a clever and suspenseful way?
•
Will this action lead to the battle to win (third act) and the ⊝?
•
have I shown the decision to act in one ⊕, via the ⊛
taking the first step in the battle to win?
The second-act relationship line
it’s often said that the ⊛’s relationships come to the fore in the sec-
ond act. This isn’t surprising really, as often the ⊛ barely knows the
relationship line characters until the start of this act, and sometimes has not
even met them. in The Station Agent, as we’ve seen, Fin doesn’t meet Joe or
The ⊪ 111
Olivia until the start of the ⊪ (which begins after he inherits the sta-
tion building). in cases like these, the three-act structure of the relationship
line cannot actually start until the ⊪, so its dramatic high points
occur some time after their equivalents in the action line.
CheCkInG ThaT The relaTIonShIP lIne IS MoVInG
it’s easy for the relationship line to stop developing and get jammed in the
same place. a good way to check whether this is happening is to see if any
of the relationship sequences can be swapped around. if major scenes or
sequences can be swapped between acts without a problem, the relationship
line is static. The best scenes often contain the action and relationship lines
together, so that each informs the other. if the relationship line is not moving,
it could be because the action line is not permitting movement, in which case
you will need to change the action line to get the possibilities of progression
you require.
hang on to the idea that the action line permits the relationship line to
happen and choose your action line events so that they force changes on the
relationship.
⊧ Strategy 22
CheCk ThaT The relaTIonShIP lIne IS MoVInG
Write a ⊚ sentence for the relationship line to make sure it is
moving, rather than restating the same relationship point in different ways.
Questions to ask:
•
Does every incident in the relationship line take the relationship
forward, or am I duplicating the same interaction over and over again?
•
Could I swap around any of the relationship scenes? (If so, the
relationship line is not moving.)
•
Is my relationship line’s movement tied closely to the movement of my
action line?
•
If my action line isn’t helping my relationship line, do I need to change
the action line?
The ⊪ can be condensed
interestingly, in folk tales, the ⊪ (and also part of the third act) is
always the bit of the story that is condensed or expanded. For example, in the
various versions of ‘Cinderella’, Cinderella may attend the ball on one night
or attend several balls on a series of different nights. Our ability to condense
112 The 21st-Century Screenplay
the ⊪—or even remove it—will become very important later when
we look at non-linear and group stories, which often condense or lose the
⊪ almost entirely.
how can something as important as the ⊪ be condensed? We can
condense it precisely because it consists of complications—different things
that can go wrong as the result of the problem caused by the first-act turning
point. The essential dramatic moments in the ⊪ of ‘Cinderella’ are its
start (the first-act turning point, going to the ball) and its second-act turning
point (running away from the ball) and if you want to tell ‘Cinderella’, you
must keep these. however, you can remove the rest and still have a story.
Understanding just how to cut the ⊪, particularly how to use the
huge energy of the second-act turning point scenes (the ⊛’s worst
moment and the decision to act), is the key to understanding and structuring
films with time jumps and flashbacks.
113
Chapter 14
The third act: ⊝, ⊡,
symbolism and myth
The ThirD aCT is triggered by the two-step second-act turning point. The
third act is the battle to win. We must be on the edge of our seats throughout
act three until the very end of the ⊝ ⊕, which is when we finally
know whether the ⊛ has succeeded or failed.
Build the suspense by loading the dice against the ⊛ from the
start of the ⊪ onwards, consciously factoring in clever twists and
turns in action line and relationship line. The second-act turning point will
have left the ⊛ bereft and damaged, so, in act three, you will need
to make the audience feel that the damage might be fixed and the ⊛
made happy (even if your intention is to do the exact opposite). Without
hope there will be no suspense.
The ⊝
The ⊝ might well be the ⊕ that made you write the film in the first
place. if so, remember that however much you are dying to write it, you have
to earn a ⊝. horror, tears or helpless laughter are not won easily.
note that (except in inner/outer story films, where the inner story has to be
resolved after the action-line ⊝), the ⊝ is the story’s major dilemma
resolved in one make-or-break moment. Like the turning points, the ⊝ is
always seen on screen as one physical moment, one crucial, win-or-lose ⊕,
even if it is preceded by a spectacular battle or chase. This one ⊕ provides
‘the point’ of the film in both action line and relationship line. For example, the
⊝ of Gran Torino (Walt deliberately getting himself shot by the gang), is
both the ⊝ of the action line (how Walt defeats the gang) and the ⊝ of
the relationship line (how Walt, the inveterate racist, gives his life to save Theo
and sue, the hmong neighbours he started out hating).
anTIClIMax WorkS Too
sometimes, to make a point, anticlimax is used. Life merely goes on, despite
tragedy, or despite the lack of great triumphs, or despite the innocent being
113
114 The 21st-Century Screenplay
punished while the guilty go free. This is so in Crimes and Misdemeanors,
The Station Agent and Tulpan. in all cases it works because the non-⊝ is
actually a different but valid answer to the original dilemma or problem. a
misdirected ⊝, as in Guarding Tess, is not an answer to anything, there-
fore is irritating.
keeP uP The PreSSure
maintain pressure up to and until the end of the ⊝ ⊕. it is very easy
for the writer to forget that the ⊝ must genuinely be a ‘do-or-die sus-
penseful battle’, the culmination of a whole third-act struggle in which the
⊛ (who almost always wins) could really die or lose the fight/the
case/the lover. a good example of the writer not really believing in the ⊗
and therefore creating a weak third act and ⊝ occurs in the action com-
edy Six Days Seven Nights. This is a film about two people crashing a plane
on a desert island and having adventures with drug smugglers while being
assumed dead. The ⊝ depicts the couple arriving back at their own
memorial ceremony, which is being held at the island resort they originally
left. so little attention was given to the notion of what would really happen if
a couple died like this that no grieving relatives are even shown telephoning
the resort, let alone attending the memorial service. This weakens the ⊝
because it is incredible. Probably, the writer was distracted by looming ⊗-
ting problems of writing the comic chaos of the plane’s actual landing.
⊝ anD FIrST-aCT TurnInG PoInT
The ⊝ should answer the question raised by the first-act turning point,
as we’ve seen. it is quite common for the ⊝ to shift a little from what you
initially planned. if the two don’t match, change one or the other.
⊧ Strategy 23
FInD The ⊝ anD FIrST-aCT TurnInG PoInT
Make the ⊝ answer the problem posed by issues arising from the first-
act turning point, or find the first-act turning point via the ⊝.
Questions to ask:
•
Does my ⊝ answer the problem set up by the first-act turning
point?
•
If I have no first-act turning point, what question is being resolved in
my ⊝?
The third act: ⊝, ⊡, symbolism and myth 115
•
Is my new first-act turning point what the film is ‘about’, and a good
surprise/obstacle?
•
Is the ‘battle’ in my ⊝ being won (or lost) too easily; that is, is it
genuinely exciting?
•
am I really exploring all the possibilities for suspense in the ⊝?
•
am I really writing as if the ⊛ could actually die/lose their
partner etc.?
•
If my ⊝ is an anticlimax, is this deliberate and will it work (or will
it make the audience feel robbed)?
•
am I, as is necessary, presenting the new normality and ⊥ the film
soon after the ⊝?
•
are the action and the relationship lines coming to a ⊝ in the same
⊕?
•
alternatively, if my film is an inner/outer story film, am I properly
resolving both stories separately, with minimum hiatus?
⊡ and ⊥
Once the ⊝ has been reached, we need to demonstrate the new normal-
ity in ⊗ and subplot as economically as possible. Often this can be done
in the same ⊕ as the ⊝ (although an inner/outer story, as we’ve
seen, usually requires two endings). sometimes, however, writers become so
involved with the characters and story that they cannot leave them. This is
particularly so with films carrying great emotional or autobiographical con-
tent from the writer or director.
Films that suffer from this syndrome often show multiple endings—that
is, ⊕ after ⊕ following the ⊝, each of which feels like a farewell.
These can significantly reduce the impact of the film, so, if there seem to be
too many endings, blend them or choose the most pertinent.
⊧ Strategy 24
CoMe To a ⊡ anD ⊥
Make the film end soon after the ⊝, to avoid loss of impact and
inappropriate audience response (like boredom or amusement).
Questions to ask:
•
Is my film displaying multiple endings?
•
If there is autobiographical or strong personal material in the film,
am I sufficiently distanced to decide which is the best sort of
⊥?
116 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Going from the general shape to myth and
symbolism
By now you will be starting to get a good general idea of your film’s overall
shape, through your many diagrams, plans and charts. now, come back to
the film’s message by trying to find myth and symbolism in your plotlines. in
most films, the message or deeper meaning is the reason you are writing the
film, ⊮’s very easy, given the complexity of structural planning and the
detailed work of planning and writing scenes, to get distracted from the film’s
message, hence from its whole raison d’être.
SyMBolISM anD MyTh
a film is a parable or fable, with the action transmitting a deeper meaning. in
conventional ⊚, the meaning is illustrated through what happens to
the ⊛, so, as i’ve said, the script is a journey through the protago-
nist’s mental landscape.
sometimes a film idea will come to you with symbolism vividly in place
but without you understanding what it means and you have to struggle to
decipher what your subconscious is trying to tell you. For example, you
might find yourself powerfully driven to write a film about a certain place
or historical event, but you don’t know quite why. at other times however
you will want to write about a certain emotional or social phenomenon and
need to find symbols and a scenario to fit the point you are making. This hap-
pened in the writing of Jane Campion’s The Piano. Jane Campion says that
her original idea for the film did not include a piano. she started out with an
idea for a repressed woman who found her sexuality. she invented the piano
as the device which could permit this to happen. The piano came at quite a
late stage in the project. it’s a brilliant symbol because it is an object that is
strongly identified with both Victorian passion (think Chopin) and Victo-
rian repression, and, in the new Zealand context, with the contrast between
Western and indigenous cultures.
you can start to understand or create symbolism via the relationship line.
Because symbolism is often strongly connected with the emotional, spiritual
and psychological content of a film, the relationship line will usually give you
clues about any symbols that might be appearing, and will guide you as to
what symbols you need to include if you don’t have any.
setting a film against a dramatic natural landscape will almost always
add a seriousness and sense of universality to the ⊗. The desert, the
mountains, the sea—all these become metaphors for life, and the characters
moving across them start to become symbolic of the human race locked in
The third act: ⊝, ⊡, symbolism and myth 117
battles against fate and/or the elements. even a comedy such as Priscilla,
Queen of the Desert resonates with a higher seriousness because of its desert
setting. Urban settings can also have a potent symbolic quality, as in Blade
Runner.
Try to find objects like Campion’s piano, that can be symbolic while also
forming the centre of the ⊗. That way, the symbol is always present, so
always resonating. as for myth, most stories have mythical counterparts
because myths, like fairytales, tend to be about perennial human dilemmas.
To find mythical elements, simply look for similarities in the script with stor-
ies in myth, and then boost the elements of myth in the script.
⊧ Strategy 25
uSe SyMBolISM anD MyTh
look for any symbolism that is appearing and develop it. Think of symbols
to enforce themes and ideas, particularly in the ⊧ of the
relationship line.
Questions to ask:
•
are symbols and elements of myth already appearing in the script,
particularly in the relationship line? If so, how can I develop them?
•
Can I think of symbolism that will give the relationship line greater
resonance?
•
have I set the film in a place that has useful symbolism?
•
have I inadvertently set up symbolism that might be counterproductive
(for example, set a comedy against a background with dark symbolism)?
•
have I overdone the symbolism?
Preparing to write the outline
By now you should have a sound, basic structural plan for your film. how-
ever, because you have been so immersed in the minutiae of planning you
are likely to have lost perspective on the film as whole. you’re also probably
exhausted. Use the following three tools to regain distance, focus, energy and
self-confidence before you start work on the outline.
WhaT your FIlM haS To ConTaIn anD DePICT
Figure 14.1 is an expanded version of Figure 6.1. Use it first to remind your-
self of the material your film needs to contain and depict, then redraw the
chart with the boxes empty and write into each box the relevant material in
your film.
118 The 21st-Century Screenplay
The film
Message Scenario
Themes, deeper meaning, symbolism The adventure and the relationships
Keep checking that the action line Action line (the ‘adventure’). Relationship line (what goes on
and the relationship line illustrate Recognise it by the fact that it publicly between the main
the message that you’re after. comes with inbuilt scenes and a characters, often involving an
Don’t fall into the trap of simply chronological imperative, e.g. if it’s evolving love relationship).
asserting that your film is about a robbery, the robbery has to be Usually, this will not present itself
certain themes without checking thought of, planned, executed— with implied chronological steps.
that your scenario is genuinely and has to succeed or not. You will just sense that your
transmitting those themes to the characters need to go on some
audience. Be careful that when emotional journey. Work out the
you describe the script you are events of the action line, then
not just repeating phrases from peg the relationship line to these
the pitch. Often you start off not events. The relationship line has
knowing the message—you are its own mountain structure.
just drawn to the story and/or
characters. Don’t worry. That’s
standard. A great deal of what
writers do is coming from the
unconscious. Just keep thinking
and looking for clues as to your
film’s deeper meaning. When you
find them, develop them. Look
for or create symbolism and myth.
In the conventional linear ⊠ The relation- Inner story, outer story
model, the first-act turning ship line proper shows the (⊛’s character
point is probably the most public relationships of the flaw) Inner story/outer story
vital part of the structure. It is: ⊛ (e.g. scenes happen in films where a
a) what the film is ‘about’ in showing the ⊛ ⊛ has an inner
terms of story; falling in love). The character character flaw vital to the
b) a big surprise that turns into arc consists of moments story. The flaw is the inner
the obstacle that drives the plotted into the script that story. The outer story is how
film; show step by step the internal this flaw manifests publicly.
c) an entry into another world, changes (emotional, For example, a child who is
physical and/or psychological. psychological and spiritual) deeply insecure (inner) lies to
The ⊝ will answer the wrought in the ⊛ by get approval, this causes story
question set up by the first-act the action line and the (outer). The flaw creates big
turning point. relationship line (e.g. the problems (maybe the whole
⊛ starts out a adventure) in the action line
ruthless gangster but the and in the relationship line
brutality he witnesses in the (lying affects relationships).
action line and his growing Films often show the
love for another character in ⊛ overcoming the
the relationship line make him flaw as a result of what
soften). happens in the action line
and/relationship line. Really,
the inner story/outer story is
an extreme form of character
arc. Inner stories often have to
be resolved after the action
line ⊝ (when the
⊛ recognises and
rejects his/her flaw) which can
cause a hiatus. Be careful.
The action line (adventure) and relationship line are inextricably linked. The action line
permits the relationship line to happen. Change the action line to get the character
⊧ you’re after. The action line is not holy. It is a means to an end, not an end in itself.
Figure 14.1 What your film has to contain and depict (expanded version)
The third act: ⊝, ⊡, symbolism and myth 119
InDex CarDS anD BeaTS
The next step in planning the outline is to transfer your plans for the vari-
ous plotlines onto index cards, using a different index card for each ⊜ of
each ⊗, numbering each one. you then set the cards out in order on a
table, which will permit you to see the film in its entirety. you will be able to
pick weaknesses and experiment with ⊗ changes by the simple means of
moving the cards around, which you will keep doing and doing again as you
proceed.
some writers use different coloured cards or a different numbering sys-
tem for different plotlines, so they can easily pick whether there is enough of
each ⊗, and if the various plots are being intertwined in a balanced way or
being presented in clumps. you can also check the film’s running time.
The MaGIC leTTer
The story goes that legendary screenwriting teacher Frank Daniel used to
advise all writers at the start of a script to write themselves a letter explaining
why their film was going to be wonderful. They were then to place the letter
into an envelope, seal it, and put it away until they had a serious problem
with the script. at this point, in their greatest despair, they were to open the
letter and there, miraculously, would be the answer.
This makes a lot of sense. The letter will not only contain the spark, but
the spark written in detail and with passion and absolute conviction—all of
the things, very probably, that you need to get you back on track.
Writing the outline
now you can start to write a proper outline or ‘⊜ sheet’ in point form,
thereby giving yourself another chance to check that your script has good
bones before you start to flesh it out with scenes and ⊘. your outline
will go through several drafts. Point form will make it harder to waffle, and
remind you that each new point must be a movement in the ⊗. as you
proceed, see also Part 3, Practical Plotting and Part 6, getting it on the Page.
Chapter 15 provides a structural analysis of a conventional three-act struc-
ture film, The Piano, which you may also find useful for reference.
Chapter 15
Structural analysis of The Piano
THE PIANO is a powerful and compelling film built on a fine three-act
structure, involving inner and outer story and containing interesting use of
myth and symbolism. it very usefully illustrates the structural components
described in the previous section. Use the following structural analysis for
reference and exercises. For example, as an exercise in understanding the
⊚ sentence and Vogler’s hero’s journey, apply them to The Piano.
orIGInS
Jane Campion wanted to write about a repressed Victorian woman finding
sexuality and self-expression. The plotline involving the arranged marriage
and the lost piano came later. in other words, The Piano came from an idea
for a character and relationship line, and the action line was invented to per-
mit the relationship line to happen. This is very common.
Structural breakdown of the action line following
the basic Smiley/Thompson nine-point plan/
three-act structure
⊬
1 Normality: ada’s life in scotland
2 Disturbance: going to new Zealand to be married
3 ⊛: split between ada and her daughter. Together they form
one complete person, the ⊛. The child is both ada’s ⊞
and her conscience. note how Campion cuts constantly from ada
to the child, who either acts out what her mother is feeling—from
dancing along the beach with joy when her mother is playing the
piano with joy, to caressing the trees after her mother has caressed
Baines, to cartwheeling at the end of the movie—or else acts out the
opposite—most crucially, going to stewart and not Baines with the
piano key.
120
Structural analysis of The Piano 121
4 Plan: to continue her silent protest, expressing her emotions only
through the piano
5 Surprise: that ada is not allowed to bring the piano—her ⊞—
from the beach to the house
6 Obstacle: because she is not allowed to bring the piano to the house,
she is unfulfilled, she cannot ‘speak’. she has to get the piano back to
fulfil her plan (to express herself only through the piano). This is the
problem/need that drives the rest of the film. getting the piano back
is what the film is ‘about’.
The surprise plus the obstacle form the first-act turning point.
aCT TWo
7 Complications: act two contains all of the obstacles which prevent
ada from fulfilling her plan to express herself through the piano. it
also provides a range of answers to the question posed by the first-
act turning point: ‘What will happen when a woman who expresses
herself through playing the piano is prevented access to a piano?’
notice the barriers and reversals, and how the question changes when
ada falls in love with Baines, now needing both Baines and the piano.
•
stewart will not bring back the piano.
•
ada goes to Baines with a note about the piano, but he cannot
read.
•
When the child explains, Baines refuses to take her to the
beach.
•
Baines finally takes ada to the beach to play the piano but does
not bring it back.
•
Baines offers stewart some land in exchange for the piano on
the condition that ada teach him.
•
The piano is dropped on its way back from the beach.
•
ada insists the piano is hers, but stewart insists she give it up
and teach Baines so he can have the land.
•
ada refuses to teach Baines because the piano must be out of
tune which would distress her.
•
The piano has been tuned, so she teaches him.
•
Baines offers the bargain—one key per visit.
•
The daughter wants to come in—she might betray them, thus
prevent the bargain being paid out and the piano returned.
•
Baines wants her to strip for him—five keys.
120
122 The 21st-Century Screenplay
•
The music-lesson sham is almost exposed at the Bluebeard
play.
•
Baines wants more—ten keys to lie with her.
•
The little girl sees and caresses the trees, stopped by stewart—
will he find out? The little girl says ‘i know why mr Baines can’t
play the piano’, but stewart doesn’t understand.
•
Baines gives the piano back saying it’s turning ada into a
whore and he wants her to love him.
•
stewart, thinking he’ll have to pay for the piano, offers it back
to Baines.
•
Baines says he can keep it.
•
now ada has got the piano back, she suddenly finds it is not
enough for her—it will no longer fully express her emotions.
she now needs Baines and the piano (note that now the
complications involve not getting just the piano but getting
Baines and the piano. some analysts would call this act four).
•
ada goes to Baines. he tells her to go, opens the door for her
to go, so she hits him. They make love.
•
stewart accidentally sees them! Will he stop them? Violently?
•
stewart does not stop them. he lies under the house listening.
Baines says ‘if you care, come back tomorrow.’
•
When ada goes back the next day, stewart catches and tries to
rape her.
•
maoris are bashing at the piano (if they destroy it, this is an
obstruction).
•
stewart barricades ada in the house.
•
ada starts playing the piano in her sleep (is this impending
madness? if so, it will be a very effective obstruction to getting
Baines and the piano).
•
ada tries to express her sexuality with stewart (if she can, she
won’t need Baines).
•
Baines is leaving in a few days (if he’s gone, she can’t have him).
•
ada keeps trying with stewart but won’t let him touch her. (is
she falling for him? This would obstruct her need for Baines.)
•
stewart is touched by ada’s advances. he takes down the
barricades. (is ada falling in love with him?)
•
having taken down the barricades, stewart gets her to promise
not to see Baines (another obstruction).
•
ada writes: ‘george, you have my heart, ada mcgrath’ on a
Structural analysis of The Piano 123
piano key and gives it to the child to take to Baines—but the
child takes it to stewart.
•
second-act turning point: stewart goes crazy, chops off ada’s
fingertip, which stymies her because she cannot play properly. This
is ada’s lowest point, her brush with death. Will stewart kill her?
aCT Three (CoMPlICaTIonS ConTInue)
The battle to win: Can ada fight back and win Baines and the piano?
•
stewart tries to initiate sex with ada. (Will she? has he beaten
her into submission?)
•
ada stops him with a strange look (a late appearance of the
decision to fight back). he sets off with his gun to see Baines.
(Will he kill Baines?)
8 ⊝ (there are two, because the film involves inner/outer story)
•
Outer story ⊝: stewart tells Baines that ada’s telepathy
asked him to let her go with Baines and tells Baines to take her.
ada and Baines leave with the piano.
•
inner story ⊝: ada pushes the piano overboard, thereby
rejecting it as her only instrument for expression! (now she
only has Baines.) But she catches her foot in the rope. it pulls
her over into the sea where she seems destined to drown. she
has to choose whether to live, and engage with the world, or
die, thereby choosing utter, irreversible silence. she decides to
live and speak, overcoming her flaw (notice the hiatus between
the two climaxes).
9 ⊡: ada is living with Baines. she is a music teacher with a
silver fingertip (made by Baines), teaching herself to speak.
aCTIon lIne, relaTIonShIP lIne, Inner anD ouTer
STory
The action line (and outer story) is what actually happens to the piano—all
of which is triggered by ada’s inner flaw; namely, that she insists on staying
silent and communicating only via her daughter and her piano. The relation-
ship line is the growing love between ada and Baines. ada’s ⊠, her
journey, is an inner-story model, whereby through sexual awakening into
sexual and emotional fulfilment she manages to overcome her inner flaw and
reject silence and isolation. note how the action line permits the relationship
line (and inner story) to happen, and how the action line pulls the relation-
ship line along.
124 The 21st-Century Screenplay
⊛ anD ⊣
ada is the ⊛. stewart is primarily an action-line ⊣, with
Baines the ⊣ in the relationship line. When Baines and ada fall in
love, stewart becomes the ⊣ in their story. Baines is an ⊣
who changes. The greatest change is in ada, the ⊛.
STeWarT BuyInG MaorI lanD
There is another minor ⊗ about stewart buying maori land. This serves
to show stewart as greedy and unresponsive, a man without spirituality and
intuition. The Bluebeard play is a kind of symbolic set-up that pays off in the
actual finger chopping. as normal, the ⊪ is largely concerned with
the relationship line.
unITIeS
The first big ⊕—in which ada lands on the beach—is duplicated in the
⊝ ⊕, where ada and Baines are leaving and ada chooses to live.
note also the unity in the script whereby ada’s first words and the ⊨
words are: ‘The ⊞ you hear is my mind’s ⊞ at six years old’. ada adds
later in the same ⊕ that: ‘silence affects everyone in the end’. The last
words of the film are all about silence.
SyMBolISM
The plots and setting of a good film are mental landscapes, metaphors for the
characters’ mental state. The Piano functions against the setting of two real
landscapes which have enormous metaphorical/symbolic power as symbols
of sexuality. These are water (particularly the ocean, but also rain and water
generally) and the wild forest. Fire is another potent symbol, which Jane
Campion does not use in this instance, except in the child’s tall story about
the death of her father, in which he is struck by lightning.
These images of storm, water, wild nature and fire are, of course,
the stock in trade of gothic fiction, which, like The Piano, is driven by
repressed sexuality. in classic gothic style, Campion uses symbols of wild
nature to externalise sexual crisis—like a storm as the outward expression
of stewart’s jealous rage just before he chops off the finger, and the pelt-
ing rain to accompany stewart’s rape. note that the maoris often appear
naked or half-naked against water, which symbolises their relaxed attitude
towards sexuality (compared with the over-dressed, repressed europeans,
whose clothes drag in the water and the mud). The maoris actually call
stewart ‘old dry-balls’. The uneducated Baines, who wears maori tattoos
Structural analysis of The Piano 125
on his face and is powerfully driven sexually, occupies the ⊦ ground
between the two races.
The piano is another symbol, this time of Western culture and the sub-
limated, controlled sexual passion of the nineteenth century. Jane Campion
added the piano to the ⊗ because she wanted a way to explore the dawning
sexuality of a repressed Victorian woman. For ada, the piano is her ⊞,
her passions. Only when she is playing the piano can she speak. it is her
emotional self, her passionate self, which Victorian society would seek to
suppress. The juxtaposition of the piano against a raging sea operates on a
powerful emotional level. The subliminal effect of these symbols—which
flash up constantly and naturally in the background—is to reinforce the
sexuality and passion of the ⊗. On a less primeval level, there is a whole
symbolism of angels (Western asexual creatures), which starts the moment
ada and the little girl land on the beach and the maoris say they look like
angels, to the last part of the film where the angel’s wings (Western asexual-
ity) are swept back and forth through the ocean.
MyThS
many great films and novels link into folk tales and myths as well as Jungian
archetypes. The Piano links into many powerful myths, most obviously
‘Beauty and the Beast’, and ‘sleeping Beauty’ (awoken by a kiss).
To summarise, we can find elements of the following mythical/fairytale
components:
•
‘Beauty and the Beast’
•
‘sleeping Beauty’/enchanted princess
•
Faustian bargain
•
Folktales in which the ⊛ is forced to perform onerous tasks,
often nightly, to gain freedom
•
ada having a telepathic ‘dark power’
This page intentionally left blank
Part 3
Practical
Plotting
This page intentionally left blank
129
Chapter 16
The nature of the task
The lasT chapTers dealT with broad structural issues. Now, as
you start your outline, we need to explore the extraordinarily difficult task
of ⊕-by-⊕ plotting, something often understandably neglected in
screenwriting books because it is hard to explain in the abstract and is usu-
ally learnt only by experience. The key to understanding plotting is to realise
that the inbuilt limits of the screenplay form make it, in technical writing
terms, an excercise in micro-engineering.
a novelist focuses on creating the best piece of fiction they can. a screen-
writer, on top of the massive task of telling a world-class story, is constantly
focused on cutting, condensing, shaping, pumping up suspense, all just to get
over what they want to say in 100 to 110 minutes, 120 at most. and this is the
core of the problem. Normally, you have a maximum of two hours to grab
and hold the imagination of the world with a powerful story, but you must:
•
tell your story almost entirely by characters in action (with no help
from prose ⊚)
•
tell everything in one sitting to an audience that gets restless after one
slow ⊕ and actively bored after two
•
create never-failing, ever-rising suspense to a powerful ⊝ (with
no possibility, as a novelist, of quiet pauses at the end of chapter
breaks)
•
do it all to a budget
The impact of time
even in terms of how long the story can be there is a problem. The business
of dramatising action, of ‘showing not telling’, is inherently a very time-
consuming way of transmitting a story. Take this simple sentence from a
novel: ‘They met by accident at the station and spoke tersely about custody
of the children.’ This will take a minimum of about forty-five seconds on
film, probably more, depending on whether we know the characters and how
much information the parents need to discuss.
129
130 The 21st-Century Screenplay
let’s break this down. Five seconds or so at least will be needed at the start
to establish the station and the presence of all of the characters, and probably
another five seconds for a final shot of the ⊕. ‘spoke tersely about cus-
tody of the children’ will involve a series of terse sentences and pauses, with
the camera cutting between each face, every shot eating into screen time. If
the children are there, which, for dramatic purposes, you will probably want
them to be, you will need to provide time for the camera to record them
perceiving and being upset by their parents’ discord. You may want a child to
interrupt and a parent to send the children out of earshot. You may want to
see passers-by reacting, and so on.
What this means in practical terms is that you have time for only about a
hundred small packets of information like the sentence above (about one per
minute), possibly less since many of your ‘sentences’ will take a lot longer to
transmit on screen than the example above. On top of all this, the ⊗ of a
film has to be a chain-reaction, with event a causing event B causing event
c and so on, without irrelevancy or repetition. This kind of close plotting is
actually extremely hard to do.
The need for words
Because the look of angst is also the look of indigestion, a further and serious
restriction is that film cannot transmit detailed internal thought processes.
This will affect not only how you tell your story but the kind of story you can
tell (it’s why The Shipping News was a brilliant exploration in prose ⊚
of a man’s internal state but was probably never going to work as a film).
While occasionally you can do a bit of ⊞-over ⊚, your charac-
ters must demonstrate their personalities, their responses and their thoughts
primarily through action and credible ⊘ couched in short speeches.
That said, you must not be too cryptic because your audience cannot flick
back a few pages if they get lost, and they must be able to absorb your film
in one sitting (or at least understand and enjoy enough to come back for
another viewing).
Budget
a novelist’s imagination can run riot. a screenwriter has to write scenes
that are affordable, and moreover be ready at the drop of a hat to relocate a
⊕ so that it has exactly the same dramatic content but happens in a dif-
ferent, more convenient or cheaper location. screenwriters learn tricks such
as how to cut redundant characters (all actors have to be paid); how to write a
period script so that scenes can be shot tight to conceal a twenty-first century
The nature of the task 131
background; how to write so that scenes involving a very busy actor occur
only in limited locations, so the actor can be present for the minimum time.
These are the hidden skills of screenwriting, vital for everyone’s survival, but
only noticed if they are missing.
Instruction manual
Finally, regardless of any issues of quality, a film script has to be an instruc-
tion manual instantly understandable on a first reading to a wide range of
people. anyone who’s struggled to understand a kit furniture instruction
manual knows that writing good instruction manuals is an art in itself. It
calls for an astonishing degree of precision, particularly as the instructions
must be brief so they don’t interfere with any reader’s visualisation of the
script. In a nutshell, if you write in your script ‘she falls into a brown study’, a
carpenter out there may be told to start building bookcases.
Becoming invisible
None of this is to suggest that writing a novel is easier, just that film writing
requires a range of different skills from fiction, skills that are often hidden,
because while novelists are normally a very vivid presence in their work, the
good screenwriter disappears so far into the script that, if the job is well done,
for those precious one hundred minutes the audience thinks it is looking at
real life. a lot of this book is actually about the art of becoming invisible,
of creating characters, story and, particularly, a way of telling your story—a
structure—that transmits everything you want to say, whether your film is a
conventional model or a parallel ⊚.
For all of the reasons I have given here, writing a good script is difficult
even for very experienced screenwriters. Moreover, it is difficult every time
for experienced screenwriters because every script is a new recipe. In most
spheres of life, people get taught the best way to do something, replicate it
and get the product that’s required. replicate The Reader and you get The
Reader. Our job is extrapolation, taking proven methods and techniques and
combining and extending them in new ways to create material that is unique,
vividly original and appealing to people all over the world. Not easy.
It’s hard because it’s hard
If all of this sound daunting, the message to everyone involved in the creative
⊧ of a film script is that if you are finding it hard, take heart. The
reason it’s hard is because, quite simply, it is. The script is not, like the rest
of the film, the work of armies of experts. It comes out of a few heads, a few
132 The 21st-Century Screenplay
minds, and this really is both the joy of it and the nightmare. Our tools in
creating it now and in all its future forms (forms we shall all have to tackle
at some point in our working lives) are persistence, the willingness to learn
from other writers, adaptability, an acceptance of our own fallibility, a readi-
ness to rewrite as much and as often as it takes, and, finally, above all, careful
planning.
133
Chapter 17
Close plotting: Beats, interweaving
and condensing
IT’s ONe ThINg TO know that you want to write a powerful story about
a robbery, another to know exactly what ⊗ steps or beats you need to tell
the story to its best, and even harder to know how many you can get into the
screen time at your disposal, particularly if your film is a parallel ⊚
structure with several stories.
close plotting is the art of picking, condensing and ordering beats and
scenes to maximum effect (for an explanation of beats, see p. 50). as I’ve
said, for 100 minutes of screen time you need about 70 to 80 beats. simple
arithmetic shows you how little time this would give you for each ⊜ if you
showed it separately. You don’t. You combine beats from separate story lines.
hence, in, say, Finding Nemo, the relationship between father fish Marlin and
his friend dory is taken a ⊜ further every time they together encounter
and overcome a problem (a ⊜) in the action line (the hunt for Nemo).
To ⊗ effectively, you need always to be thinking: ‘condense, tighten,
enrich’. You need to see individual scenes and sequences as means to an end,
not ends in themselves. specifically, you have to know how to:
•
create a story as a chain reaction of events
•
differentiate between a ⊜ and a ⊕, and realise when you are just
repeating different versions of the same ⊜
•
use one ⊕ to simultaneously drive a number of plots and transmit
character information (which means you will often have two or more
beats in one ⊕)
•
choose carefully where your scenes are set to maximise what you
can get across (for example, it might be more useful for your arguing
husband and wife to argue in an office rather than at home so that
a third and a fourth character can credibly walk in and, in the same
⊕, take other plots another step further)
•
truncate (so that three slow scenes that happen over two days in five
different places can be condensed into one ⊕ on one morning in
one location)
133
134 The 21st-Century Screenplay
•
think in terms not of simply ‘a good ⊕’, but of a good ⊕ that
packs in as much information as possible, as part of a continuously
building action line that is pulling the relationship line along
•
see your film as a series of simultaneously running plots, as if in an
aerial view
Creating a chain of events: ‘. . . and then?’
a ⊗ is a chain of events—a series of beats—leading to a ⊝, ⊮’s easy
to get stuck providing different versions of the same ⊜ without realising it.
Imagine you had to write an episode of the now defunct series Seinfeld (TV
series are useful examples for plotting issues because everyone knows the
characters and the kind of story material, which means the only issues are
getting a good story and structuring it properly).
The comic pattern in Seinfeld was that a tiny event or act escalated com-
ically into a major drama. let’s imagine Jerry has a new girlfriend. she’s
perfect except that she has enormous feet, which increasingly unnerve
him. The large feet must somehow cause a story, that is, an escalating comic
problem ⊥ in a ⊝. The temptation will be for you to get stuck at
the first ⊜ (‘Jerry notices her big feet and finds them unnerving’), per-
sistently inventing funny ways in which the feet unnerve Jerry, rather than
an adventure—that is, a set of consequences arising from the feet phobia.
For example, the following are all versions of ‘Jerry is unnerved by the big
feet’.
•
The girl keeps stepping on people’s feet in a cinema queue then
blaming others.
•
Jerry starts to feel less manly because his feet are smaller than hers.
•
The girl arrives wearing embarrassingly huge shoes.
These are not a story, they are different versions of the same ⊜—technically,
a repeated disturbance—and, even if you write each brilliantly, the script will
feel as if it’s running on the spot. To create a chain of events, choose one of the
three options that you like and ask: ‘and then?’ to start a story.
let’s say you opt for the cinema queue idea. ask, ‘and then?’ Imagine your
answer is ‘Jerry, in the cinema queue, takes his girlfriend’s side and gets into
a quarrel with a strange woman’. Then ask, ‘and then?’ Your reply might be,
‘The strange woman starts to stalk Jerry.’ Then ask, ‘and then?’
In all of your scripts, always ask: ‘and then . . . and then . . . and then . . .?’
consciously taking your story, step by step, to a ⊝ (traceable to the very
first step).
Close plotting: Beats, interweaving and condensing 135
Condensing beats
To illustrate how to create storylines in beats and how to condense beats,
let’s look at another defunct american TV series, Friends. I’ve devised a six-
⊜ plotline (a subplot) for Joey, one of the characters, then shown how to
condense it.
WhaT doeS Joey need In hIS ⊗?
⊗ illustrates character, so your first question must be: ‘What does my char-
acter need in his ⊗ to depict his character?’ Joey is an actor, so it would
be good to have a ⊗ that includes acting. he is also kind, good-looking
and obsessed with acting, but a little stupid and sometimes unintentionally
insensitive to others. Our ⊗ needs to depict all of these qualities.
Joey’S STory In SIx STePS or BeaTS
In our ⊗, Joey gets a job as a vegetable in a soup commercial and messes up
in a typical Joey way. how do we turn that into a story with six beats? here’s
one way.
1 Joey is auditioning with others for the role of a tomato in a soup
commercial which will involve a lot of actors dressed as vegetables.
2 Joey gets a smaller part as a carrot. he’s irritated by the arrogant man
who got the job of the tomato and attracted by the gorgeous girl who
is the cauliflower.
3 at rehearsals, Joey questions the motivation of the carrot. he forces
the cast and director to have discussions about the psychology of
their characters, particularly how the vegetables would interact in a
crisis situation (getting mashed into a soup).
4 rehearsals turn into therapy sessions. everyone is talking about their
bad childhoods, their terrible mothers etc.
5 The director starts to shoot the commercial, but then has a nervous
attack, remembering his bad relationship with his brother. all of
the vegetables start fighting, which Joey tries unsuccessfully to stop.
comic chaos.
6 Joey gets sacked, but a casting director gives him a role as an
aggressive blackcurrant in a new fruit juice ad.
Notice that there is a clear story progression here, each point leading to the
next. If each was just a different version of, say, ‘Joey’s suit is very tight and
something funny happens’, it would be a repeated disturbance and ultimately
boring.
136 The 21st-Century Screenplay
hoW Could We reduCe ThIS If We had To?
Identify the essence, the heat of the idea. In comedy, this is what is funniest
about it. here, the heat is that Joey is so obsessed with acting that he dis-
cusses the motivation of a carrot, which upsets the director and actors and
gets him sacked. Thus, whatever we do, we must keep ‘Joey gets an acting
job as a carrot’ and ‘the director has a nervous breakdown triggered by Joey
discussing the carrot’s motivation’. Other funny elements are the sight gags
(vegetable costumes); Joey’s jealousy of the tomato and attraction to the cau-
liflower; actors dressed as vegetables solemnly discussing the motivation of
vegetables and remembering their traumatic childhoods.
We could easily tighten our plotline one ⊜ by combining beats 1 and 2
and starting the ⊕ at the end of the audition, so we open with Joey inter-
acting with the tomato and cauliflower actors. That’s actually faster, richer
and funnier. If we have to lose more, the interaction with the tomato and
cauliflower could be cut back; although, if we’re clever, we can include it in
the story elsewhere.
Joey’s story as four beats could be:
1 Joey is at rehearsals for a soup commercial, where he has got the role
of a carrot (although he wanted the role of tomato, and is antagonistic
towards the tomato and flirtatious to the cauliflower). Joey questions
the motivation of the carrot, and asks how all the vegetables would
feel in a crisis situation like being made into soup.
2 The rehearsal has turned into a therapy session. everyone is talking
about their bad childhoods, their terrible mothers etc. (play on Joey’s
antagonism to the tomato and attraction to the cauliflower).
3 The director starts to shoot the commercial, but then has a nervous
attack, remembering his bad relationship with his brother. all of the
vegetables start to fight, as Joey unsuccessfully tries to stop them.
comic chaos.
4 Joey gets sacked, but a casting director gives him a role as an
aggressive blackcurrant in a new fruit juice ad.
Joey’s story as three beats could be:
1 Joey is at rehearsals for a new carrot juice (no longer a soup)
involving only one actor, Joey, as the carrot. There are no other
vegetable actors, only the crew and the director. Joey questions the
motivation of the carrot and how it would feel in a crisis situation—
like being made into carrot juice.
2 The director starts to shoot the commercial, but then has a nervous
attack, remembering his bad relationship with his brother. comic chaos.
Close plotting: Beats, interweaving and condensing 137
3 Joey gets sacked, but the director gives him a role as an aggressive
blackcurrant in a new fruit juice ad.
Joey’S STory In TWo BeaTS and WITh TWo aCTorS and
one SeT only
You could get almost the same joke with just two actors and one set: Joey
and the director in the director’s office (using only a corner set; again, much
cheaper) where Joey has come to discuss the commercial. You would lose
the big sight gags, but you could compensate by making the conversation
between Joey and the director funny in itself. perhaps the director has a
funny facial twitch or is paranoid about spilling his coffee—whatever. Note
that including the shooting of the commercial means lots of extras as camera
crew etc. That’s expensive and does not really add to the comedy.
1 Joey questions the motivation of the carrot and how it would feel in a
crisis situation like being made into carrot juice.
2 The director and Joey discuss the carrot’s motivation. The director
has a nervous attack, remembering his bad relationship with his
brother. comic chaos (for example, the director bursts into tears,
or curls up on the floor in a fetal position). end the story with Joey
watching the director in amazement, or with Joey sneaking out,
leaving the director.
The two-⊜ story isn’t as rich and visual as the longer version, ⊮ still
contains the story’s heat, its core. lack of screen time and budget will often
force you to condense your material and, actually, often the condensed ver-
sion is better.
Story stranding
at some point you will have to interweave your stories. In certain films, usually
group films, there is so much story to transmit that each ⊕ has to be care-
fully constructed so that it will transmit several story strands simultaneously.
For example, in a film about six gangsters, you will have a lot of interpersonal
⊗ beats to transmit as well as your main gang story (see pp. 218–33). study
films and TV drama to learn about good and bad close plotting.
how the action line permits the relationship line
to happen
To show how the action line permits the relationship line to happen, and to
illustrate a weak action line can destroy a film, I will retell The African Queen
without its wonderful action line, the journey down the river. In this new
138 The 21st-Century Screenplay
version, rose and allnutt stay at the mission throughout, bickering and end-
lessly reacting in character to each other’s character flaws.
Technically, this means that they are stuck at the disturbance of the story, the
destruction of the mission, and I have provided no first-act turning point, no
building ⊦ act to catastrophic second-act turning point, and no exciting
‘battle to win’ third act and ⊝. Notice that this new version has a ⊟
of events (in that the characters both do a series of things in character and in
response to each other) but there is not an incrementally building ⊗. There is
no real story.
Notice too how unconvincing the love story is in this new story. This is
because a credible love story between two such different characters requires
extenuating circumstances and my weak action line hasn’t provided any.
The afrICan Queen (WITh no aCTIon lIne)
(each new number indicates a different segment or ⊟.)
1 The mission is attacked.
2 rose and allnutt are the only survivors.
3 rose and allnutt bury the dead.
4 rose makes allnutt sleep in a shed.
5 rose makes allnutt rebuild the chapel and helps him. They have
comical differences about how to build. rose, who cannot admit
she is wrong, keeps making mistakes in the building but making
excuses for herself.
6 There is a storm and The African Queen breaks its mooring and
sinks. allnutt is thus stuck with rose.
7 allnutt drinks himself into a stupor.
8 rose throws away all of allnutt’s gin.
9 They have a terrible argument and call each other hurtful names.
10 germans come to the camp. rose and allnutt fight them off.
10a Or germans come to the camp and rose and allnutt take one as a
prisoner.
10b Or rose falls ill. allnutt nurses her back to health. she is a very bad
invalid, but they fall in love.
10c Or allnutt falls ill and rose nurses him back to health.
11 allnutt tell rose about tragic events that happened to him as a boy.
rose tells him about her repressed childhood.
12 allnutt restores rose’s harmonium. she is touched.
13 rose makes a Union Jack flag and insists on flying it.
14 Now in love, they get married.
Close plotting: Beats, interweaving and condensing 139
Notice how static this is. Notice how it consists of largely unconnected
sequences that do not build on each other and which can be shuffled about
without creating any problem in ⊗ continuity (a clear sign that the ⊗ is
not moving). We might add a bit more excitement by having rose and all-
nutt keep a prisoner, ⊮ would still be very static. We could combine some
of these points to fool ourselves that we were adding energy. For example, we
might write it so that the germans creep up as allnutt and rose are quar-
relling, so they are caught unawares. Our best hope for a ⊗ here would
probably be a story based around the conflicts and/or unity that might result
from that german prisoner idea, but then the film might become a three-way
piece, with a strong risk that the german prisoner could pull focus. Notice
how the ⊤ of the film has a certain energy, because of the originality
of the characters and setting, ⊮ soon starts to grind to a halt. as for the
love story, it is utterly implausible.
Good writing skills can mask storytelling
problems
as I’ve commented about ‘Finding Becky’ (see pp. 33–4), what is really
frightening is that while the weaknesses of this version are vividly evident
because we all know the real African Queen, if you imagine the outline I’ve
given with stylishly constructed scenes, witty ⊘, good characteri-
sation and a range of moving and comic scenes, it could seem reasonably
good. It would be much harder to pick the lack of proper ⊗. The writerly
skills might well mask the utter lack of story, of step-by-step movement, and
the repetitiveness of the action. It would feel slow but each ⊕ taken sepa-
rately would be good. It would be damned with faint praise as ‘promising’
with ‘interesting characters’. But good characters do not make a good film.
You need a story.
SIeGeS are dIffICulT
as a postscript, take note of the siege nature of my new African Queen ⊗.
When you have a story that is inherently static, as all siege situations are,
you have to work hard to create credible and interesting emotional ⊖
between the characters that are under siege.
CollaPSInG your TurnInG PoInTS: The BeTrayed WIfe
Often a plotline can be energised very powerfully by taking what at first
sight looks like the first-act turning point and making it the disturbance,
then turning the second-act turning point into part of a new first-act turning
140 The 21st-Century Screenplay
point, so as to put the ⊛ in a very powerful dilemma. Your original
third act will then become part of a new and more interesting ⊪. You
will of course have to add a lot of ⊗.
For example, look at this ⊗ outline.
1 ⊛: an upright woman lawyer in her thirties is very much
in love with and emotionally dependent upon her high-profile
husband who happens to be a compulsive gambler.
2 Disturbance: Thugs arrive at their home and threaten her husband
unless he pays off a massive debt.
3 Plan: The woman tries to raise money to pay off the debt but can’t.
4 First-act turning point: The thugs arrive, capture the husband and
tell the woman that she has to give them secret information about a
case that her law firm is handling or her husband will be harmed.
5 ⊪: she becomes involved in a complex scheme to get
information for the thugs.
6 Second-act turning point: she is discovered, loses her job and finds
out that the plan was her husband’s idea, that he is not in danger, and
that he has another woman.
7 Third act: she goes to the police, who initially don’t believe her, but
finally do.
8 ⊝: she tells him that she is free of him, and can cope on her
own.
This seems okay, although rather boring. It is not set in a new world, but pos-
sibly a good writer could cleverly insert new-world elements. Note that it has
a surprise first-act turning point, a second-act turning point that takes the
woman to a very low point, and a ⊝ that pays off the first-act turning
point. so, apparently, everything structurally necessary is in place.
But look how much more confronting and faster the story becomes if you
collapse the turning points, so that the first-act turning point is combined
with the weak disturbance and the second-act turning point becomes the
first-act turning point.
1 ⊛: Upright woman lawyer in her thirties is very much in
love with and emotionally dependent upon her high-profile husband
who happens to be a compulsive gambler.
2 Disturbance (originally first-act turning point): Thugs arrive at their
home and tell the woman that her husband owes them a huge sum of
money and she has to give them secret information about a case that
her law firm is handling or her husband will be harmed.
Close plotting: Beats, interweaving and condensing 141
3 Plan: she gets the information for the thugs.
4 First-act turning point: she is discovered, loses her job and finds
that the plan was her husband’s idea. he is not in danger from the
thugs, and he has another woman.
suddenly the woman has a much bigger problem, with many possible
options ⊨ out for the next part of the story. You could either build on
your existing ⊗ idea, or go in a completely new direction. does the woman
engage in revenge, and if so, how? does the story become an action thriller?
a psychological thriller? a horror story? does the woman turn the tables on
the husband and the other woman in some clever/shocking/horrific way?
Note that this version gives you everything that you had in the original, but
permits you to take it further.
Shifting where an event happens
akin to collapsing turning points to get a more interesting and original story
is using the story fragments that come to you at a different part of the film
than the one you first thought of. For example, the fragment ‘woman kills
brutal husband’ could be the start of a story, the ⊦ of a story or its
⊝.
don’t lose the ⊗: Staying with the heat
Twins stays with its heat because it employs a story that throws the unlikely
twins together and takes them on an adventure. This all sounds very obvious,
but in practice it is quite easy to stray away from the heat. For example, imag-
ine Twins with a ⊗ that followed only one twin as he searched for a twin
he knew existed but had never met. Imagine that the ⊝ is that arnold
schwarzenegger finds his identical twin, and the twin is—danny de Vito! It’s
the same joke (non-identical identical twins) but the joke—the heat—hasn’t
been properly exploited so it falls flat. Note too that the story is not about
identical twins having an adventure. It’s a single-⊛ hunt story with
a sight gag about non-identical identical twins right at the end.
a less extreme version of losing the heat would be a ⊗ where for long
periods of time we followed only one twin on an adventure.
Writing in code
planning is always a process of logic trying to impose a shape on material from
your unconscious. This can result in an odd phenomenon that I call ‘writing
in code’. It is often what is happening when good writers produce oddly weak
plots but are passionate in defending them; the writer has attached a clichéd
142 The 21st-Century Screenplay
⊗ to a strong idea because their logical mind, trying to find an appropriate
scenario to fit the combination of images, emotions and vague bits of scenes
that are coming from the unconscious, has gone straight to memory banks
and jumped on the most obvious scenario to fit the general ⊙.
For example, you might find yourself passionately inventing a tired mel-
odramatic ⊗ about a woman being pursued by a homicidal maniac and
⊥ up at the first-act turning point imprisoned in a warehouse. You
then find yourself drawn to write scenes about the husband having a sepa-
rate adventure elsewhere. You occasionally insert scenes about the woman,
showing her as she tries various ways to escape, but you don’t enjoy writing
these and, despite your best efforts, they remain slow and lifeless. Nothing
seems to energise them, even though you try to the point of the ridiculous
(she finds dynamite, ⊮ doesn’t work; she gets attacked by rats as she tries
to dig her way out; a big chunk of wood falls, just missing her head; a passing
stranger fails to hear her call etc.). however, you are positive you don’t want
your ⊛ to escape (you know you want her kept under threat), and
at the same time, you really want to write about her husband.
strangely, what might be happening here is that what really interests you
is ‘a woman trapped in a difficult marriage’. however, you jumped at a ⊗
too soon, and came up with the first ‘woman trapped’ scenario from your
memory banks, which is a kidnap ⊗. Kidnap and siege plots often come up
in these ‘writing in code’ situations, so if a siege or kidnap ⊗ pops into your
head, check that it really is giving you what you need.
In our ‘woman in the warehouse’ ⊗, to service what you’re really inter-
ested in, you need a ⊗ that will keep the woman in her threatened position
in the marriage, in close physical proximity to the husband.
picking writing in code is difficult, but you are usually conscious of being
strongly pulled to write what you know is a tired ⊗ which stops dead at
the first-act turning point, while you want to follow another character who is
equally if not more fascinating. If this happens, try dumping the old ⊗ and
finding a new one that puts the two characters that you’re drawn to physically
together and in ⊖.
The trick when you are stuck like this is to check the spark and the heat,
asking yourself, ‘What is attracting me to this idea? What am I trying to
do here? Is this ⊗ going to give me the chance to explore what I want to
explore? do I know what I want to explore? What is this film about?’ It’s very
easy to keep working on a ⊗ because it was the first one that occurred to
you. as I have said, there is nothing sacred about the ⊗. If it’s not letting
you do what you want, change it.
Close plotting: Beats, interweaving and condensing 143
Just in passing, whenever you have a ⊗ about two people in ⊖,
put them geographically close together if you can, because that prevents the
⊗ jumping back and forth between different locations and also means the
physical threat is increased. Menace from a distance is difficult.
Changing protagonists in the ⊪
Finding yourself wanting to change protagonists in the ⊪ is not,
however, always a sign of writing in code. It’s a common problem in scripts
written by writers used only to short-form writing. Not used to the marathon
that is a feature film and unable to think of a chain of complications at the
speed at which they normally work, they panic and change direction. don’t
get distressed if this happens to you. planning a film is usually a slow process.
simply go back to the first-act turning point and start working on complica-
tions arising from the surprise that turned into an obstacle. alternatively, if
you find your new ⊛ more interesting than the first, go back and
make your film about the new ⊛. certain parallel ⊚ struc-
tures do indeed change ⊛ and story, often having several of each,
but very rarely does a parallel ⊚ film make its audience focus exclu-
sively on one ⊛ for twenty minutes without giving warning, via
flashbacks or a prologue, that this film is unconventional. audiences asked
to invest in one ⊛ and then swap to another without warning may
simply feel that the film has, literally, lost the ⊗.
Chapter 18
Plotting: Tips, traps and rewriting
⊞-over
⊞-over narration is a wonderful but problematic device because it can
easily get out of control. It is so attractively poetic, so lyrical, so full of char-
acter, that it is easy (particularly for scriptwriters, trained to keep words to
a minimum) to get carried wildly off the point, inventing scenes simply to
permit the narrator’s purple prose to soar over endless, repetitive montages
of the ⊛, often just in its normality. This can wreck your story,
but, because the ⊞-over has become so much part of the fabric of the
film, cutting it becomes difficult, both in structural terms and emotionally
because usually you love the ⊞-over and have sweated blood to get it on
the page.
To give yourself the best chance of writing powerful, apposite ⊞-
over—to make it enrich rather than damage—first pinpoint exactly why you
are using it. Work out precisely what your narrator is interested in and what
exactly is his or her point in recounting their story. Then, instead of inserting
the ⊞-over as you go, consciously put it aside while you plan, construct
and write the first draft. When that’s done, insert the ⊞-over. That way,
the ⊞-over is servant to the story, rather than vice versa. You may have
to tinker a bit with the internal content of scenes, but you will have a strong
story, not just footage supporting a ⊞. redundant ⊞-over is often a
problem in adaptations of fiction.
‘do we need it?’ a weak idea that skews the
whole film
surprisingly often, usually when they’re working without a plan, writers will
insert a weak or implausible bit of ⊗, not considering the ramifications—
then adjust the entire script to fit the weak bit. For example, not thinking
ahead, the writer creates a murder story in which character a is present when
character B murders character c. This later causes problems because a would
have told the police. Instead of just removing character a from the murder
144
Plotting: Tips, traps and rewriting 145
⊕, the writer will often go to amazing lengths to explain why a didn’t
tell the police—creating a whole series of complicated and often implausible
twists and turns that take the ⊗ away from its heat.
When you are having plotting problems justifying characters’ behaviour
or some other ⊗ element, go back to why you are having the problem. ask
‘What is this bit of ⊗ adding to the story?’ Then see whether you can sub-
stitute something that will perform the same function but be more original.
You can apply this approach to major structural issues. Imagine that
you want to write a film about brotherly sacrifice and to illustrate this you
have chosen a drug-smuggling ⊗ in which one brother becomes a drug
mule to buy his sibling out of massive debt. however, having got this story
sketched out, you are struggling to find a new take on drug-smuggling.
stop and ask yourself what the drug ⊗ is giving you. could you get the
same effect via a different, more inventive version of plotline (in a new
world)? could your ⊛ be smuggling documents out of a brutal
dictatorship? Body tissue across a continent? alternatively, do you need
a smuggling ⊗ at all? could one brother save the other by hacking into
computer records? and does actual crime need to be involved? could you
get a similar level of threat by having the brother required to seduce or win
over the creditor?
The lITerary ‘deVICe’
‘literary device’ is a term you sometimes hear filmmakers use to explain a
character or plotting point that they realise is weak or clumsy or clichéd but
feel justified in using because its sole function is to set up some fascinating
bit of the script, after which it will disappear, with no harm done.
Unfortunately, these devices have a way of skewing the whole film. For
example, a common device of this sort is a clichéd or boring ⊛ (say,
a clichéd female journalist) inserted to explain the shift in the story from one
milieu to another where the really interesting stuff will happen. sounds fine,
but because you have spent a lot of effort getting your audience interested
in your clichéd sally the Journalist—in telling the story from her point of
view, and making this dreary character the hero and focus of your film—
you can’t dump her. a three-act linear ⊚ (as opposed to a multiple
⊛ film) dictates that the character you set up as ⊛ at the
start of the film remains ⊛ (unless you are doing something like
Psycho or The Crying Game, where you have a Mercutio character who feels
like a ⊛ but whose death is actually the start of the real ⊛’s
story). You will have to keep sally at the heart of your film (thereby robbing
144
146 The 21st-Century Screenplay
your interesting characters of screen time), all the while trying to keep your
audience interested in her, which is very hard because she is a cliché. addi-
tionally, in terms of casting, you’re unlikely to attract a decent actor because
the character is so weak.
If your plan is to take sally to the new milieu and then dump her for
another ⊛, why not open your film on the new ⊛? Why
knowingly create a weak character or ⊗? Your audience may not stay
around long enough to see the good bits. In The Oyster Farmer possibly Jack
started out as a literary device (see pp. 426–7).
Black hats and white hats
a mundane but very important point to remember is that characters of about
the same age and similarly dressed, particularly in uniforms and particularly
in rapid action, can be very hard to tell apart. characters in hats or helmets
are particularly difficult because they have no visible hair colour or hair style,
one of the fastest means of identification. divers and pilots whose helmets
cover their entire face so that only the eyes are visible are the hardest of all.
Obviously, if we can’t make out who is doing what and why, the film has
problems. If you think your characters might be hard to recognise—because
of their dress, because it’s an ⊨ ⊕, because it’s a battle, or all or
some of the above—be inventive. If you cannot make their clothes visibly
different or give them clearly different hair or glasses, give them mannerisms.
The more distinguishing marks between group members the better. This also
applies to child characters who grow up during the film. The Joy Luck Club
solves this problem by quarantining each group of women in a separate, self-
contained storyline (see pp. 348–51).
rewriting
a film industry mantra is ‘writing is rewriting’. Yes and no. rewriting is inev-
itable; it normally improves the script, and often you will lose count of the
rewrites you do. In fact, usually you will look back and shudder at how you
ever thought the previous draft was adequate. however, unfocused, repeated
rewriting is a waste of time and money and can mean a script dies on the
page. When a script dies like that it’s usually because the writer (and others, if
anyone else was involved) started into plotting without properly working out
the spark, message and scenario—generally, what film they were in. Thus, the
rewriting has been going in circles. Try to minimise rewriting by planning
the script before the writing starts.
The big problem with rewriting is that even a good writer’s worst writing is
Plotting: Tips, traps and rewriting 147
always respectable and will normally contain elements of genuine excellence.
The urge will be to save what’s written, even if it’s not serving the spark (which
may not have been properly identified anyway). Unfortunately, brilliant
scenes that don’t serve the spark have a habit of fizzling on the screen—which
is how you can end up with a tepid film out of a wonderful idea.
TeChnIQueS for reWrITInG
rewriting requires a lot of work before even one new word gets written. It
involves:
•
‘un-thinking’ or ‘shedding’ previous drafts
•
considering, then choosing new options that will still fit with the
spark, the message and the scenario
•
exploring and making the new options your own
•
writing up chosen options under pressure to world standards
Un-thinking takes strong nerves because you have to analyse and often reject
material in which you’re invested. assume objectivity is going to be difficult.
don’t rush into changes and, while reminding yourself that the ⊗ is not
holy, think very seriously about the implications of your changes. They could
change the spark. They could change the ⊛, thus change the point
of view of the story.
Often new options will mean refocusing the script very slightly, which in
its way can be harder than refocusing it in a major way (you may forget tiny
but crucial changes). alternatively, rewrites caused by sudden budget or cast
changes can mean you are left with as little as the ⊙ and the chess pieces.
In cases like these, you may have to find a new spark and start all over again.
You may have a different ⊛, even a different genre. In a massive
rewrite, a lot will have to go. Be aware that scenes or lines that worked bril-
liantly in draft two may now be redundant or slow the pace. Your adaptation
may only now be ‘inspired by’ the original.
rewriting can be depressing and requires endurance. however, the result
when you get there is usually well worth it, and it comes with the territory.
In a crisis
•
give yourself permission to panic for a minute or two, then get on
with the job.
•
go back to basics. Think: ‘What am I supposed to be doing in this
film/⊕?’, ‘What film am I in?’
•
This is when all of your notes on spark, heat, message and scenario,
charts, versions of the genre equation, ⊚ sentences, index
148 The 21st-Century Screenplay
cards, ⊕ breakdowns, outlines etc. become immensely useful.
re-read them, double-check them.
•
If you wrote yourself Frank daniel’s magic letter, open it and
reinvigorate yourself.
•
go back to the script ⊧ strategies in this book to check
you really do have the structure and character points in place.
•
Is the first-act turning point still what the film is ‘about’? does the
⊝ still answer the question of what the film is ‘about’? are your
action and relationship lines properly in place and functioning?
•
have you erred from the original plan? If so, go back to it. If you
prefer your new version, restructure the script to include it.
•
check that crucial material hasn’t accidentally been left out after
cuts and rewrites without you noticing; also, that scenes rendered
redundant by cuts or new material have not been left in. This is very
common after many drafts, and often explains why good filmmakers
passionately defend shaky scripts. redundant scenes can be left
in while themes, even vital scenes, can be missing or deleted—all
because everyone was concentrating on something else. I call this
‘sixth draft syndrome’.
•
get people whose judgment you trust, and who understand your
writing strengths and weaknesses, to comment. Be prepared for this
to be painful.
•
remember the old-time hollywood writer’s question: ‘do you want it
fast, or do you want it good?’
using criticism to best advantage
When a script comes back from readers with a range of criticisms, writers
often plunge straight into rewrites. This is understandable but very dan-
gerous because it can mean changes are locked in before criticisms and
problems have been properly diagnosed. particularly dangerous is the fact
that frequently producers and readers pick problems but misdiagnose them
(as we’ve seen earlier, in chapter 4, What film are we in?), so their sugges-
tions are actively counterproductive.
Imagine a script coming back from readers with the general criticism that
the female characters are too passive. Tackle the problem by going back to
basics, with ⊧ strategy 1: define the task at hand. ask questions
like: ‘do I know the task here? What is the next step? What is causing the
problem? am I sure that this really is the problem, or could it be only a symp-
tom of another problem; for example, what film we’re in?’
Plotting: Tips, traps and rewriting 149
although we know only a minimal amount about this particular script,
we can open up a whole range of interesting ⊗ and characterisation possi-
bilities just by targeting the task, in this case, by asking three questions: what,
precisely, is being criticised; is the readers’ diagnosis accurate; what solutions
are possible?
WhaT, PreCISely, IS BeInG CrITICISed?
You can’t fix something until you know what it is you are supposed to fix.
First of all, what is meant by ‘passive’? One reader might simply mean they
want to see the character engaged in more action. But a militant feminist
might want the film’s women to be politically active. so get your readers to
give you a precise definition, with examples from the text.
IS The dIaGnoSIS aCCuraTe?
The old rule is: one person with a criticism can be ignored; two with the
same criticism are a worry; three with the same criticism are right. That said,
as we’ve seen, readers often criticise the symptoms of a cause, but mistake
them for the cause itself, suggesting solutions that compound the problem.
For example, in a ‘writing in code’ situation (see pp. 141–3) a producer might
rightly pick that the ⊪ of the woman-trapped-in-the-warehouse
script is slow, but suggest adding more terrifying incidents in the warehouse,
which will only worsen the situation.
as for the passivity that worries your readers, this might not be passivity
per se, but a symptom of poor and clichéd ⊗ and characterisation gener-
ally. so, a remedy would have to tackle significant ⊗ and characterisation
changes throughout, rather than fine-tuning to one set of characters. I’ve
suggested a range of ways to instil energy in a script above. as ever, remem-
ber that the ⊗ is not holy.
In summary, look carefully at all possible causes of the passivity problem.
also, check what, if anything, is good or useful about the passivity, so you
can incorporate it in some other way. For example, the passivity might be the
only factor forcing a weak male ⊛ to act.
WhaT SoluTIonS are PoSSIBle?
here are just some possible responses to the charge ‘passive female characters’.
1 go to other readers.
2 ditch the project.
3 define the original themes and ideas behind the script and
consider whether a different scenario would carry the ideas better;
150 The 21st-Century Screenplay
for example, using an ⊣ who changes massively, as in the
‘prude to action hero’ model.
4 If the film is a comedy, think of it as a tragedy, so as to spark ideas.
If it is a tragedy, think of it as a comedy to spark ideas.
5 remove all women from the ⊗.
6 remove all men from the ⊗ and make the entire cast female.
7 reverse current male and female roles.
8 combine characters to make them richer.
9 pull against the stereotype; for example, if a female character is
a stereotypical housewife, give her a non-stereotypical hobby,
obsession or approach to life.
10 Make the women’s passivity a comic or dramatic feature to be built
upon; say, in a subplot (for example, the women’s passivity means
they do not notice something vital happening or, as in The Stepford
Wives, the women’s passivity is a vital clue in the ⊗).
11 Make the women passive-aggressive for added ⊖.
12 scrap all current female characters completely and invent new ones.
13 Keep the useful characteristics from the female characters and
re-use them in new characters. For example, the ⊗ might require
a new female character to have the same profession as her earlier
passive version.
14 add a new character or twist to the ⊗ which can somehow
galvanise the passive female characters into action.
15 Think of unusual ways to make the women interact more
dynamically with the men. For example, turn the male ⊛’s
wife into his mother, sister or daughter.
16 give a female character her own perspective on the main ⊗,
which might be in opposition to the male ⊛’s perspective.
For example, make the major ⊣ a proactive female.
17 look for a model for the story in folk tale, genre or myth that
might help with new and interesting ideas for how the females
could be more proactive.
18 Insert more ⊖ between characters generally.
ChooSInG a real BuT unuSual anSWer
The last step is to choose, out of all the possibilities, a ‘real but unusual’
answer. check not only for the best answer, but for any chain-reaction effect.
For example, will the story be completely distorted by the changes? Will new
characters pull focus away from important male characters, and if so, how
Plotting: Tips, traps and rewriting 151
will you fix the balance? how will the changes affect audience expectations?
Will women have to figure more prominently in the ⊝?
Notice that each of the eighteen possible responses could be used as a
springboard to more detailed responses, which in turn are capable of being
dramatised in a huge variety of ways. It is the ideas behind any rewrites that
are being tackled.
While responses such as ‘go to other readers’ and ‘ditch the project’ may
initially seem flippant, in fact they’re sensible. perhaps the current reader (or
producer) is simply wrong for this project. perhaps the project is indeed not
worth pursuing. The essential message here is don’t rush into changes.
apprenticeship
Often, a new writer will start film school with a promising, unfinished and
structurally flawed script. Two or three years later they are an infinitely bet-
ter writer, but the script is no longer an adequate reflection of their mature
talents and would take years to fix, if indeed it is fixable at all. sometimes a
script like that needs to be viewed as an apprenticeship. If it’s genuinely good,
throw yourself into it. If not, honour it, treasure it, but move on to something
that permits you to write to your best and kick off your career.
Writing under pressure
It’s typical of a writer’s life that an important writing opportunity arises at the
worst possible time. here is a simple plan for writing when you are under
pressure of time:
1 Work out how much time you can afford to devote to the writing,
and create a plan with dates for completion of each stage of the
work. do not plan to do everything at the weekend or in a few
consecutive days because the pressure on you will be too great.
Instead, try to do a little each day. remember that even a minute
here and there can be used to brainstorm solutions to small
problems. For example, a five-minute coffee break devoted to
brainstorming the demands of the genre in which you plan to write
will give you a huge amount of information. added together, these
minutes will move the work on its way, and also increase your
confidence.
2 consciously remind yourself that stress creates cliché. look calmly
at your strengths and weaknesses as a writer, and be aware that
under stress you will make your normal mistakes. For example, if
you have a weakness with structure, that weakness is liable to show
152 The 21st-Century Screenplay
itself under stress. This is not being negative, it is being focused.
Write yourself reminders about problem areas in the script or with
technique and stick them over your desk.
3 If you are finding it hard, that’s because it’s hard.
4 Throughout the writing, make use of the ⊧ strategies.
start with number 1: define the task at hand; that is, refresh your
memory about the sort of material that is needed for the sort of
script you have to write.Watch relevant films and read relevant
scripts. Be aware of details.
5 decide what the genre demands in terms of emotions and pattern.
6 If you are writing a short film, check that the story can be told in
the length of screen time you have.
7 check what specific limitations, if any, the piece of work might
have; for example, no period pieces, no expensive effects etc.
8 Brainstorm and explore a range of ideas as shown in chapters 2
and 3. do not jump at your first idea because it will probably be a
cliché. later ideas are likely to be more original. choose an idea
that fits with the above points and is original and unclichéd.
9 Use the genre equation (⊧ strategy 3).
10 Isolate your spark, ‘new world’ and heat, (see chapter 4, What film
are we in?).
11 create structure charts.
12 If your story is about a group reunion, siege or mission, or is
running multiple stories in parallel or consecutively, jumping about
in time, or has flashbacks, see part 4, parallel ⊚.
13 Work out a simple story sentence (⊧ strategy 5) which
you keep developing. If you are writing a parallel ⊚ film,
you will have a number of these.
14 draw a ‘structure mountain’, putting in the turning points (see
Figure 5.1, page 54). If you are writing a parallel ⊚ film, you
will have a number of these.
15 decide whether your story is an action line or relationship line and
peg the relationship line to the action line (⊧ strategy
11). In parallel ⊚, there might be a number of action lines
and relationship lines.
16 For any relationship line, draw a ‘relationship road’ (⊧
strategy 10) with signposts indicating the developmental steps of
the relationship. Make sure the relationship does develop (that is,
that the signposts show ⊧ and cannot be interchanged).
Plotting: Tips, traps and rewriting 153
17 If you are writing a non-linear and/or ensemble film, consult part
4 of this book, which deals with parallel ⊚. You will need to
think about: condensing your plotlines; a macro; pace, connection,
meaning and closure.
18 check that you have the right ⊛ and ⊣, and that
the ⊣ is a worthy foil to your ⊛. Be aware that
you might have to invent a ⊛ to match a charismatic
mentor ⊣.
19 check that you have a good first-act turning point in your story or
stories. remember that it must be a physical ‘surprise’. remember
that your first-act turning point is what the story is ‘about’. If you
know what your film is ‘about’, you will often have your first-act
turning point without knowing it.
20 Make sure that the action does not slow down and meander after
the first-act turning point.
21 Work out good second- and third-act complications. Work out
complications logically by asking what obstacles could be put in
the way of the ⊛ after the first-act turning point. create
a downward progression to part 1 of the second-act turning point
(⊛’s worst possible moment).
22 check that your ⊝ answers the problems raised by your
disturbance and first-act turning point.
23 Make sure that your ⊝ is powerful and worth your audience’s
effort.
24 If your ⊣ is pursuing your ⊛ from a distance,
consider inserting a companion for the ⊣, so they have
someone to whom they can express their aims and thoughts. Insert
some relationship ⊖ between these two people.
25 Keep checking that you are exploiting the intrinsic drama and
essence of your story (for example, if your story is a thriller, is
it really thrilling?). ask what is ‘hot’ (exciting, new, marketable)
about your story, and make sure you are properly exploiting this.
Try to leave enough time to edit your work. In your second draft,
check that your story hasn’t shifted so your ⊝ no longer fits the
first-act turning point.
26 In your second draft, run through all the ⊧ strategies
and your other checklists again.
154 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Stick to the spark
Just generally, if you are lost or there are problems, go back to the spark, and
make sure your script is serving that spark. Keep using ⊧ strat-
egy 3, the ‘genre equation’, to check that you know the pattern you need and
the emotions you have to evoke. similarly, use the strategies from chapter 4:
⊚ sentences, message and scenario, and mind mapping.
155
Chapter 19
Genres with particular plotting
problems
adaptation of fiction
Many fine films have been adaptations of novels. Not surprisingly then,
studios and independent producers often actively seek out novels for adap-
tation, assuming that a successful novel will automatically translate into a
successful film. Unfortunately, this frequently isn’t the case, not only because
some novels are too long or too internal for film, but because there is a funda-
mentally different contract between writer and audience in film and fiction.
The difference is this: for audiences, fiction is about the journey, film is about
the destination. The same people who happily tell you that their favourite
novel ‘takes fifty pages to get going’ will, if sitting in a cinema, get angry with
slow scenes in seconds. We love novels that go off the point for a chapter to
examine the ⊛’s bizarre but utterly irrelevant auntie Nellie. do this
in a film and the audience will get actively hostile. Many novels have very
little ⊗ and end in mid air, in a deliberate anticlimax. You just can’t do that
in feature film. The film audience demands from very early that your film
has a story consisting of a chain-reaction of events and a ‘point’—even if that
point, as in Mulholland Drive or Caché (Hidden), is to question ⊚
conventions, including the notion of ‘point’ in itself.
Film needs to engage immediately and rise steadily and incrementally to a
⊝, but many novels, as well as starting slowly and ⊥ in anticlimax, are
episodic. Often, the only way film can insert the vital rising suspense into epi-
sodic story material is by using a parallel ⊚ form, for example flashback.
This permits the episodes to be quarantined in flashbacks while a strong story
in the present pulls the film forwards, thus preventing slowing. This will give
you a good result, ⊮ raises serious issues about staying true to the book. To
make the film of the book you have pulled the book apart.
as for creating a ⊝ from a novel that doesn’t have one, the writer has
three unattractive choices: first, copy the novel and write a script without a
⊝; second, invent a brand new ⊝; or third, angle the script so that
an event of not much significance in the novel becomes the ⊝ (which
155
156 The 21st-Century Screenplay
may mean ⊥ the film before the novel ends, or adapting only one part
of the novel). This can mean the novel’s message is seriously distorted. all of
this assumes that the novel has a through line and does not, as many novels
do, change stories midway, in which case the scriptwriter has to somehow
bridge the gap. I once had to insert an entire ⊪, with a whole new
plotline, into a three-part miniseries adaptation of a novel because, as the
novelist cheerfully admitted, the novel had no ⊦ and the two halves
were really two novellas, with only one character in common.
When it gets to this stage we are really into the territory of ‘inspired by
the novel’, and the primary reason for adapting the novel for the screen in the
first place—that the novel was successful—has gone because the novel is so
massively changed.
The bottom line here is that a great novel may simply not transfer to film
and adaptation is not just about dramatising good scenes from the book. In
fact, frequently adaptation is an attempt to change apples into oranges. If the
apples are actually capable of being changed into oranges and, more to the
point, everyone is happy to get oranges, that’s fine. If not, there are problems.
The things to look for in any novel you plan to adapt are a strong through
line, rising suspense and a ⊝.
ISSueS In fICTIon adaPTaTIon
Novels always have to be condensed (novellas and short stories are a better
prospect), hence episodic novels may end up reduced to one episode, chang-
ing them beyond recognition. ⊘ in novels is usually unnaturalistic and
rambling and will usually require a complete rewrite. characters might have
to be deleted or combined. New characters may need to be invented to speak
aloud content handled via prose ⊚. Only novels which can make their
point via a strong action line—as do Lord of the Rings and the harry potter
books—are a reliable bet for screen adaptation, although note that the ⊦
film in Lord of the Rings was, predictably, weaker than the rest.
Many novels feature mentor antagonists, with the narrator a weak protag-
onist. sometimes this can be transferred as is to the screen. In other instances
it might be best to eliminate the novel’s narrator altogether and make the
mentor ⊣ of the book the film’s ⊛.
adaptation of fact/biographical films
adaptation of factual/historical material involves picking out the ‘story steps’
or beats of a real story to create a piece of drama that will operate on the
audience in the same way as a fictitious story. as with fiction, a narrator
Genres with particular plotting problems 157
describing a real-life charismatic individual may need to be removed from
the film, or the film rendered as a mentor ⊣ structure (see a discus-
sion of The Insider on this point on pp. 412–13).
Biographical scripts may have very serious problems as a result of the
writer assuming that a life is of itself a story, and wanting to include every-
thing that happened in the subject’s life or, more often, everything involving
famous people that happened. If this is the case, the film is likely to be confus-
ing and ultimately boring. a common problem is spending time on various
famous people who happened to be involved with the ⊛ but have
nothing to do with the story.
Biopics require you to take an angle on the subject’s life. While many
biopics span a person’s whole life, it might be that what’s interesting about
the subject happened over just a few years. It can help if you find a character
from myth, fairytale or great literature that resembles your character. This
can give you a better handle on the character, and also suggest a ⊗. For
example, is your character a don Quixote character?
Parallel ⊚
life stories are often best served by one of the parallel ⊚ forms because
these conceal episodic progression and permit time jumps, as well as stories
running in past and present. We’ll look at this issue later on.
Forms typically used are:
1 centre-split flashback (for example, Goodfellas)
2 double ⊚ flashback (as in Shine, The Remains of the Day,
Citizen Kane, The Life of David Gale)
3 consecutive stories (as in City of God)
4 preview flashback (as in Walk the Line) is also a possibility.
hISTorICal aCCuraCy and lIBel
You need to be aware of the extent to which (if at all) you are going to elabo-
rate upon the truth for dramatic effect. There can be legal problems involved
in this form.
Checklist for planning adaptations of fiction or
fact
1 Think very seriously about whether your material is suitable for
adaptation. success as a novel is no guarantee of success as a film.
2 have someone on the ⊧ team who never reads the novel
so they can check that the script works as a film.
158 The 21st-Century Screenplay
3 producers should note that their objectivity may be compromised
because the reason they are making the film is usually because they
are in love with the book.
4 check whether the dominant story is an action line or relationship
line (see ⊧ strategy 9). You must find a good action line
rising in suspense to a ⊝. If you don’t have one you will have
to invent one, which may radically change the material.
5 Write short and advanced ⊚ sentence summaries of the
action line and the relationship line. (at this stage aim for more
than one version of each.)
6 Identify the ⊛(s) and ⊣(s), or list who they might
be.
7 Be aware that the most interesting character might be a mentor
⊣.
8 Be aware that if the source material is about different versions of
the same sort of character, there could be multiple antagonists or
protagonists. If so, structure accordingly. You may need a parallel
⊚ form (see part 4).
9 consider whether a traditional three-act structure will be most
useful, or whether one of the forms of parallel storytelling would
better serve the source material.
10 ask and answer the ‘who, why, how?’ questions about character.
complete character charts and pinpoint what it is that is most
important to transmit.
11 With factual material, you will almost inevitably have to jettison
a lot of the source material and probably add more to fill gaps.
attempt to pick out (a) some superfluous material and (b) some
gaps.
12 If you are using a traditional three-act ⊚ structure, start
planning the structure with the help of the ⊧ strategies;
that is, identify the action line and relationship line structures:
normality, disturbance, first- and second-act turning points,
complications, ⊝ and ⊡.
If you intend to use parallel ⊚, you will also need to follow these steps,
but you may need to do it for stories in past and present, and you may need
to invent a story in the present to best transmit a story in the past. I discuss
this later in relation to double ⊚ flashback and other parallel ⊚
forms.
Genres with particular plotting problems 159
Comedy and satire
To write successful comedy and satire, you need a scenario which will best
show your character’s foibles. To do that, you must understand very specifi-
cally what those foibles are. You need to work out what is sometimes known
as the character’s comic or dramatic perspective—that is, what character flaw
at once defines him or her and makes them funny. This is not a new tech-
nique. The classic comic satirists like Molière and Ben Jonson actually gave
their characters surnames that summed up this comic perspective. so, go to
character charts and put together a kind of identikit picture of each of your
characters.
Very useful here is Frank daniel’s technique for creating an action line
around a character’s weakest point. This happens in the John cleese journey
film Clockwise, where an obsessively punctual man misses his train to a vital
conference. The same trick appears in A Fish Called Wanda, in which huge
mileage is derived from simple comic inversion of an animal lover who keeps
accidentally killing animals. The technique is not restricted to comedy: Ham-
let is all about an indecisive man asked to be decisive.
as we might expect, three is usually a good number for these sorts of
comic events—two is too few and four is overkill. There are three dogs killed
in A Fish Called Wanda, the comedy building to a ⊝ with the third.
The audience has fun in the anticipation, with anticipation working here as
another form of suspense. Jokes in The Simpsons are often told in threes.
Journey films
Journeys seem like a natural fit to film because they involve a lot of action
and built-in opportunities for interesting encounters. This is certainly true of
fiction, and it’s why the journey form (picaresque) is one of the oldest narra-
tive forms.
however, while journeys may work in fiction, in film they often fail,
partly because film journeys so easily fragment into episodic ‘adventures’,
and partly because it is so easy for the writer to mistake the characters’ physi-
cal movement for movement in ⊗ and character. It is very easy to keep
creating different versions of the same ⊕, featuring the same unchanged
⊛.
If there are no ongoing central action-line and relationship-line problems
that the ⊛ has to cope with in the course of the journey on the
road—no ‘incremental’ plots—the writer is left to create a hundred minutes
of random adventures on the road. creating separate adventures is actually
much harder than creating a rising three-act ⊚ because each new
160 The 21st-Century Screenplay
character or situation on the way has to be set up from scratch. Nothing
appearing earlier in the script will assist here. It is back to square one every
time.
The effect of this is that each stop on the ⊛’s journey becomes
one gag—one sketch—and new characters almost inevitably present as
stereotypes (⊛ meets shyster, ⊛ meets raunchy girl, pro-
tagonist meets thug etc.).
Monty Python and the Holy Grail—a weak journey movie made by some
of the world’s most brilliant comedians—shows how the process can defeat
even the very best writers. Typical of poor journey movies, Monty Python
and the Holy Grail has brilliant moments between long stretches of boredom.
It is really a series of comic sketches. It gets boring because there is no ⊗ to
follow and the film is standing or falling on the strength of each individual
sketch. lack of action and relationship lines means that there is no story
to engage in and hold—nothing, as it were, to go anywhere. The effect of
this is to deprive the story of any suspense or urgency—because suspense
and urgency can only come out of a ⊟ of events. Take suspense and
urgency out of a scripted piece and you remove the audience’s ability to care
about the characters.
an emoTIonal aS Well aS PhySICal Journey
good journey films (like Thelma and Louise, The African Queen and Planes,
Trains and Automobiles) are pleasing not only because they have a strong
action line but because each step in the action line causes a change in the
central characters, a step in their emotional journey, whether comic or tragic.
The Remains of the Day offers a variant of that insofar that while each step of
the journey provides a new insight into the ⊛ in the present, each
step also triggers a flashback that illuminates the present.
Clockwise is a lot more successful because it utilises a three-act ⊚
with the requisite rising suspense and ⊝, each comically catastrophic
incident on the journey building to the next. Without a structure, the film
would simply have involved a character driving towards the north of eng-
land, having adventures on the way.
Try ShufflInG your SCeneS
as I explained on p. 111, if you can shuffle your scenes without problem,
by definition no ⊗ or character movement has occurred. Nothing has
changed. You can do this in Cold Mountain. The experiences of the returning
hero can be juggled (for example, the incident with the goat Woman could
Genres with particular plotting problems 161
occur anywhere), therefore they are not properly leading to a ⊝. and
while the returning lover says the journey changed him, it didn’t. he trav-
elled physically but not emotionally.
Cold Mountain, like many journey films, including O Brother, Where Art
Thou? and Last Orders, would probably have worked better told in paral-
lel ⊚ structure. some journey films, particularly biographical films,
which track an emotional journey across an entire lifetime, use multiple pro-
tagonists and flashback or other forms of non-linearity to boost suspense and
overcome their tendency to fragment into episodes. There are actually quite
a few different parallel ⊚ ways to depict physical and/or emotional
journeys. (see double journey form, pp. 162, 174–5, 179, 246–51; preview
and double ⊚ flashback, pp. 175, 258–67, 271–327; portmanteau,
pp. 176, 180, 332, 335, 347–75.)
IdenTIfy The relaTIonShIP lIne fIrST
The best way to approach a journey film is to think of it first not in terms
of its action line—that is, what physically happens on the journey—but in
terms of its relationship line—where the journey will take the characters
emotionally and spiritually. all good journey films are actually emotional
journeys.
Once you know the characters’ emotional journey, you can choose a suit-
able kind of journey as the action line that will best display it, then choose
specific events on the basis of their capacity to move each character one
emotional step forward while also pushing the action line one step forward.
each incident should cause the next.
TWo dIfferenT kIndS of Journey moVIe
There are two different kinds of journey movie regardless of whether bud-
dies, multiple protagonists or a single hero are used. There are journeys in
which the point of the story is unfinished business at the journey’s end (as
in Priscilla, Queen of the Desert) and there are journeys in which the story
of the film is contained in the journey itself, and what happens at the jour-
ney’s end is merely the inevitable ⊝ of what has happened before (as in
Thelma and Louise and Planes, Trains and Automobiles). Films that are about
unfinished business at the journey’s end will usually make the physical jour-
ney end with the end of the ⊪ and use the third act to deal with the
unfinished business, finalising it in the ⊝. Films that are about the jour-
ney itself will use the third act to depict the final battle in the journey, with
the ⊝ answering the questions raised by the adventures of the journey.
162 The 21st-Century Screenplay
douBle Journey fIlmS and mulTIPle ⊛
QueSTS
double journey films are a form of multiple ⊛ film in which two
characters journey either towards each other, or in parallel or apart (emotion-
ally, physically or both), as in films like Vicky Cristina Barcelona or Brokeback
Mountain. Because both characters are so often apart they need their own
action line (see pp. 246–51). Journey films with many travellers, like Priscilla,
Queen of the Desert or Little Miss Sunshine, are usually multiple protago-
nist quests, and involve many interwoven action and relationship lines (see
pp. 177–8, 208–36).
rites-of-passage and coming-of-age films
If your film could be one of these, you have a ready-made ⊠ involv-
ing a movement towards maturity. Your task is to keep the general emotions
that we expect with rites of passage and coming of age, but somehow ring the
changes. You are in well-trodden territory, so avoid clichés and sentimental-
ity. a good practical definition of sentimentality is ‘unearned emotion’.
The originality of both kinds of film, but particularly of coming-of-age
films, rests in the originality of the ‘world’ in which the coming of age hap-
pens, and the specifics of the enforced ‘growing up’. charles harris feels that
the child figure in many coming-of-age films is surrounded by adults, most
or all of whom are deeply flawed, and each of whom represents a different
choice. The child figure can either choose to become like one of these adults,
or to become something different, and the journey will usually involve the
child figure realising the inadequacy of a number of characters and lifestyles.
In structural terms, this means that many coming-of-age films are group
films. Those with multiple adult role models are really multiple ⊣
films—more precisely, mentor ⊣ films, as in Tea with Mussolini and
Dead Poets’ Society. There are, though, films like Stand by Me in which adults
barely figure and these, structurally, are group quests (see pp. 177–8, 208–36).
Not surprisingly, rites-of-passage and coming-of-age films involving one
crucial mentor (for example, Scent of a Woman, Finding Forrester and the fine
Clubland, aka Introducing the Dwights) are mentor ⊣ stories.
romantic comedy
We have already looked a little at romantic comedy (see pp. 18–21, 37–8).
The big plotting problem with romantic comedy is that you have a couple
made for each other that you have to keep credibly apart for an hour and a
half.
Genres with particular plotting problems 163
What normally sells a romantic comedy is a strikingly original action line
set in a new world; that is, the story of two lovers meeting and interacting
in a real but unusual way in a real but unusual context before finally coming
together. The emotional journey they travel on the way (relationship line) is
secondary because essentially it is always the same: ‘couple meet, experience
obstacles to their love, and [usually] end up together.’ To avoid characters in
search of a ⊗ (relationship-line material without action line) think of the
action line as an adventure, real or metaphorical—a journey down the river
as in The African Queen. Keep reminding yourself that the action line per-
mits the relationship line to happen. action romantic comedies are usually
like buddy movies, with the partners operating as joint protagonists in the
action line (fighting the common foe) but as ⊛ and ⊣ in
the relationship line.
hunT for WhaT IS unuSual
Originality is vital but very hard in well-worked genres such as romantic
comedy. Find the spark and heat, and make sure they are unusual. set your
film in a new world. hunt for what else could be unusual and original
about the couple. One simple tool is to brainstorm the question: ‘What
can I do that hasn’t been done before?’ an unusual couple (for example, a
couple of very different ages, a couple of animals, a couple from extremely
different backgrounds) can add to the originality. even if you’re writing
about two eligible young people, try to find what is unusual about them.
Make the ⊗ play on this unusual quality—in other words, stay with the
heat. For example, if you’re writing a romantic comedy about two young
elephants, have comedy specifically associated with being an elephant in
love. You will keep thinking of clichés because the genre is so well-worked.
don’t panic. expect clichés, and do the normal thing: junk them or find an
amazing new twist.
The short film
short films are worth mentioning here because they provide an excellent way
for new filmmakers to get into the industry. But they are not easy, simply
because there is so little time to impress. short films need much thought and
careful planning.
The essential ingredient of a short film, whatever its content, is impact.
The short film must grab its audience and leave it with an overwhelm-
ingly powerful impression or thought. really, whether serious or comic,
a short film is essentially ‘one gag’. consequently, while short films can be
164 The 21st-Century Screenplay
structured as traditional three-act narratives they often end on the first-act
turning point—the surprise/obstacle—so they can leave the audience with
a thought-provoking surprise. The structure here is: normality, ⊛,
disturbance, plan, surprise/obstacle, end of film.
short films are often written for competitive purposes—so compete. aim
as high as you can, because this will instantly put you ahead of most com-
petitors, who are just writing the first film that occurs to them. calmly set
yourself the task of writing a short film that will stay with people for the rest
of their lives. Keep thinking ‘real but unusual’ and brainstorm every moment
of the film to find excellence. Utilise all the tools at your disposal (⊗ and
style, sound, ⊘, setting, set details, costumes, camera angles). plan
every detail ahead to make best use of shooting time because disasters will
happen on the day.
Make sure your story is tellable in the time you have. don’t create the first
five minutes of a feature. Be careful that you are giving the audience the heat,
not just feeling it yourself. give your interesting character a ⊗ that stays
with the heat, that fans it. Thinking of it as a quest (successful or unsuccess-
ful) or adventure is useful.
go easy on symbolism and, if you are a writer–director, beware of getting
obsessed with the camera. Once you’ve got a good story, then you can get
excited about how you’ll shoot it.
Common ProBlemS In ShorT fIlmS
don’t lose focus. don’t explore characters and ideas that are not central to the
film, or include inessential action. Make sure that everything on the screen
is enriching and demonstrating the core idea. stick with the ⊛ and
the ⊣. don’t get distracted by minor characters. don’t give long
speeches or much time to characters that are only facilitating the action (for
example, the doorman whose job is simply to open the door—indeed, check
whether you actually need that doorman).
crucially, get the most value out of screen time and budget. Transitions
rarely earn their keep. a car driving up and stopping eats into shooting time
but often adds nothing more than if you had opened on the stationary, newly
arrived car. Often short films fizzle, not because the original idea is poor, but
because the film’s ⊥ does not answer the question set up in the ⊨.
If the film’s topic and question is set up as: ‘Will the ⊛ succeed in
robbing the bank?’, the ⊝ must address that (see also part 6: getting It
on the page).
Part 4
Parallel
⊚
This page intentionally left blank
167
Chapter 20
an introduction to parallel
⊚
These daYs, The FIlM industry is witnessing a noticeable increase in
films that use several separate narratives running in parallel, often involving
non-linearity, time jumps, large casts, or all of these. I call such films ‘parallel
⊚’ films, and they include works like Slumdog Millionaire, Milk, Babel,
Pulp Fiction, Amores Perros, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, Eternal
Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, Memento, The Hours, The Jane Austen Book
Club, Lantana, 21 Grams, The Sweet Hereafter, American Beauty, Crash, Traf-
fic, The Usual Suspects, Magnolia, Shine and many more.
Films like these used to be considered of interest only to art-house audi-
ences, but increasingly they are dominating even mainstream competitions
like the academy awards. Meanwhile, television, once the province of all
things conventional, is also increasingly presenting more complex ⊚
forms to highly receptive audiences.
as artists we can’t help but be excited about structures that blow open the
conventional, chronological mono-⊛ ⊚. But there is also a
serious commercial application here. There is no reason why properly used,
parallel ⊚ structures can’t be used to give us new, exciting and highly
commercial versions of every genre from love story to action blockbuster. as
I explain below, even rearranging a predictable or meandering linear narra-
tive into a non-linear model can inject excitement and suspense.
But how do we master parallel storytelling? Quite clearly, films that use
multiple stories and time jumps can be spectacularly impressive. Unfortu-
nately, they can also be spectacularly disastrous, if indeed they ever make it
to the screen.
and these films are not only complex, they are paradoxical. For exam-
ple, why do flashbacks in The Remains of the Day work to humanise and
explain its central characters, while flashbacks in Citizen Kane show Kane
as unfathomable, even sinister? how do The Full Monty, American Beauty
and Revolutionary Road succeed so well when other ensemble films end up
as characters in search of a ⊗? how can 21 Grams work when it has a huge
167
168 The 21st-Century Screenplay
set-up and no real ⊦? If you are trying to create a film to showcase the
talents of forty actors, just where do you start?
The triumph of the three-act structure is its capacity for creating strong
⊚ that builds towards a suspenseful ⊝. any writer who rejects the
classic model is instantly faced with the problem of finding new ways to solve
the basic storytelling problems of suspenseful ⊚, good characterisation,
meaning and closure. so, if we depart from the three-act structure, how and
where can we start? are there any rules or guidelines? What are the structural
pitfalls? how can the old knowledge help us to do something new? everyone
knows the old joke that all stories have a ⊤, ⊦ and end—not
necessarily in that order—but are there guidelines any more specific than that?
Parallel ⊚ storytelling is based on three-
act structure
as I have mentioned and will explain in detail in the following chapters, all
of the unconventional ⊚ forms we find in today’s films rely heavily
on the traditional rising three-act model. This is even true of films with very
complex structures such as 21 Grams, City of God, Memento and The Hours.
parallel ⊚ films inevitably struggle with pace, connection, meaning
and closure because they have so many plotlines to handle—plotlines (just
to make the job more difficult) that often inherently lack rising tension. They
solve these problems by creating pace and connection artificially, through
splitting up, rearranging and sometimes multiplying or truncating three-act
stories. This gives them the powerful ⊨, rising suspense, ⊝ and
closure (the strong ⊤, suspenseful ⊦ and gripping end) that
they would otherwise lack. There are clear patterns and techniques that can
be copied, so instead of relying on intuition, you can actually plan your paral-
lel ⊚ film.
By using parallel ⊚ techniques we can create screenplays that
would never work in three-act structure, even screenplays like 21 Grams and
The Hours that work excellently without what we would call a proper ⊦,
using stories with second acts so truncated they scarcely exist. since conven-
tional structure is, as we’ve seen, all about the story’s ⊦ (its fascinating
⊧ of a first-act turning point problem leading to a third-act battle
to win) this is quite amazing.
In medIaS reS
While it’s often asserted, referencing aristotle’s Poetics, that we should stick
exclusively to the three-act, one-story, linear chronological form because
an introduction to parallel ⊚ 169
this is the traditional Western ⊚ structure, in fact from ancient time
onwards many great works, including the iconic journey model, homer’s
Odyssey, written down centuries before aristotle was born and possibly
invented even earlier, have started at a crucial ⊕ in the ⊦ and used
flashbacks. Moreover, this was a standard way to write epics. The term for it
is in medias res (latin for ‘into the ⊦ of things’) and it was coined by
the roman poet horace in his Ars Poetica when advising epic writers to use
it—precisely because it grabbed and held the audience.
homer’s Odyssey is far closer to Pulp Fiction and 21 Grams than it is to the
hollywood three-act paradigm. It starts in the ⊦, uses multiple protago-
nists, and tells Odysseus’ adventures after leaving Troy in a massive flashback.
Other authors using flashbacks are the ancient greek novelists heliodorus,
in Ethiopian Story, and antonius diogenes, in The Wonders Beyond Thule.
Virgil deliberately copied homer in Aeneid. Non-linearity crops up all over
the world in classic works like dante’s Divine Comedy and Milton’s Paradise
Lost. I gather from traditional oral storytellers around the world that they use
it in their work too.
This is far from being merely of historical interest. What all of these ancient
professional storytellers knew, I think, is that if you have a long, episodic,
lopsided ⊚, your best bet to hold a live audience is to use parallel nar-
rative and non-linearity. In short: steal energy from the suspenseful parts of
the story and inject it into the bits of the story that might play slow. You can
see from the delightful but endlessly meandering O Brother, Where Art Thou?
what happens when you try to tell the Odyssey chronologically.
so it’s not coincidence that structure of the Odyssey closely resembles
the structure of Pulp Fiction and 21 Grams (the writer of which, guillermo
arriaga, actually uses the term in medias res to describe his writing). all
three are using non-linearity to create pace and unity in narratives that are
inherently exposition heavy, fragmented, episodic and lacking in chronolog-
ically building suspense.
Terminology
We are so used to using the three-act linear ⊚ that film people often
think of ‘⊬’, ‘act two’ and ‘act three’ as being the same as ‘⊤’,
‘⊦’ and ‘end’, and use the terms interchangeably. This can cause confu-
sion when we’re talking about parallel ⊚ where, for example, as in
Fight Club, a ⊕ from late in the film might appear at the start. In parallel
⊚, ‘⊤, ⊦ and end’ are what the audience experiences,
regardless of whether the film is linear or whether scenes appear out of
170 The 21st-Century Screenplay
chronological order. Meanwhile, ‘acts one, two and three’ are the consecutive
parts of the story in its linear form (which we can shift around to get a better
⊤, ⊦ and end).
Other terminology that might cause problems are complicated labels that
I have invented like ‘double ⊚ flashback’, ‘two-thirds preview flash-
back’ and ‘stories walking into the picture’. These terms are necessary because
the task is not just to describe parallel ⊚, but to establish guidelines
for writing it. We need descriptive names, first to remind us precisely what
each category does and how it’s constructed, and second, so that we can all
discuss them knowing exactly what we mean.
You need to know whether your idea is genuinely about two or more
complete stories in the past and present (as are Slumdog Millionaire, Fried
Green Tomatoes or The Life of David Gale) or whether, like ⊯ Clayton,
your story is just a linear three-act structure with a chunk of action from two
thirds of the way through the story stuck at the start to grab the audience.
When, in your mystery story, your detective asks ‘What were you doing on
November 12?’ you need to know whether your flashback should be twenty
seconds or twenty minutes. In this, my precise, if inelegant, terminology is
designed to help.
171
Chapter 21
Six categories of parallel ⊚
alThOUgh hYBrIdIsaTION Is happeNINg all the time and any
analysis must take that into account, at present I think we can usefully isolate
six different sorts of parallel ⊚ films, each structured differently and
each transmitting a different philosophy. These six fall into two main catego-
ries: films that jump about in time and films that don’t. The films that stay
in one time frame are often called ensemble films, and there are three main
kinds. The films that jump about in time are often called non-linear films,
and there are two main kinds. Finally, there is a hybrid, which is very like one
of the ensemble forms, but incorporates time jumps. These various forms are
shown in Figure 21.1, but, I stress, we must expect hybridisation.
form follows content
The joy for writers is that each of the categories and subcategories works best
for different story material and philosophy. so, once you know your film’s
story content and philosophy, you will be able either to pick the best parallel
⊚ structure to transmit it or alternatively, to realise that you need a
new hybrid.
For example, if you want to write about an enigmatic outsider whose past
life is being studied by a character or characters in the present, your best bet
is a form of flashback called ‘double ⊚ flashback’ (the form used in
Shine, Citizen Kane and Slumdog Millionaire). however, if you want to write
a film on the ⊙ of poverty in the city, following a wide range of charac-
ters, your idea will probably be best served by tandem ⊚ (as in Traffic
or Lantana). again, if you want to write about several possible outcomes
triggered by one event, the structure to use is one of the ‘consecutive stories’
forms as in Rashomon, Atonement or Run Lola Run. so, the thing to remem-
ber is that in parallel ⊚, form serves content. You choose the structure
that will best transmit your story and philosophy. later in this chapter I give
a general guide to the sort of stories that suit each structure.
171
172 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Parallel ⊚
Films normally without time Films with time jumps (non-
jumps Often called ‘ensemble linear) These films use several
films’. These are large-cast films stories, sometimes of varying
involving several equally importance, either set in several
important stories running time frames, OR told one after
simultaneously in one time frame. the other. Usually large casts.
Tandem Multiple Flashback Consecutive-
⊚ ⊛ ⊚ stories
⊚ ⊚
Double
journeys
The hybrid, fractured tandem
(like tandem ⊚ but
fractured and with time jumps).
figure 21.1 Types of parallel ⊚ film at present
ensemble films
The distinguishing feature of standard ensemble films is that they have a large
cast and a series of stories that run simultaneously and chronologically in the
same time frame. While ensemble films like Winged Creatures, The Hangover
and Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind make use of flashback, typically
ensemble films have no time jumps except perhaps a flashback as a framing
device, or to transmit a slab of backstory.
a huge number of films from all over the world are ensemble stories;
indeed, any dVd case photograph that gives equal prominence to three or
more characters is liable to be one. examples include Nashville, Lantana,
Little Miss Sunshine, American Beauty, Vicky Cristina Barcelona, Revolu-
tionary Road, Love Actually, The Jane Austen Book Club, Traffic, After the
Six categories of parallel ⊚ 173
Wedding, As It Is in Heaven, Caramel, The Full Monty, City of Hope, Monsoon
Wedding, Death at a Funeral, In Bruges, The Big Chill and too many more to
mention.
despite the vast number of ensemble films being made, structural analy-
sis of these films has been very limited. such analysis as there is tends to
operate on the premise that all ensemble films, sometimes all parallel narra-
tive films, are the same; moreover, scrutiny often stops at a description of the
film’s action, and observations that these films have big casts and ‘subplots’.
Talk of subplots is not really useful in this context because a subplot presup-
poses a main ⊗, which many of these films just don’t have in the regular
sense of the term; that is, one hero on a single journey. ensemble films all use
several storylines, often of equal importance (as in Traffic, for example). and
ensemble films are by no means all the same. There are major differences in
structure and content, as we shall see later.
ensemble stories are a different and equally
valid form
The biggest problem for writers trying to write an ensemble film is that for
the most part ensemble films are not recognised as being different from the
conventional one hero/one journey model, let alone as forms that have their
own structural mechanisms. Much script ⊧ all over the world is
premised on this and it has caused great damage. This is not surprising. If
you work on the assumption that film structure is always about one hero on
a single journey towards spiritual improvement, you have only two options
when you come to write a story that you know has multiple stories and a
group of equally important characters. either you say that because your
ensemble story doesn’t conform to the one hero/one story structure it can
work without any structure at all (which results in films that are characters
in search of a ⊗). alternatively, you can try to force your ensemble story
into the standard one-hero model—and end up with a redundant hero and
your group in the background. as we’ll see, tandem ⊚ films (same
⊙, different adventures) suffer most from the ‘characters in search of a
⊗’ syndrome, while multiple ⊛ stories (same team, same adven-
ture) suffer most from extraneous heroes.
ensemble films are valid ⊚ forms with their own structural
make-up. They are, and have always been, used all the time all over the
world (including the Us) whenever writers want to write about individuals
in a social context or about society at large. They appear whenever scripts
seek to explore the restrictions imposed by external social factors like
174 The 21st-Century Screenplay
class, race, religion, gender, law, family, peer group and the like. almost
all war films and films about troubled families are ensemble stories, as are
almost all films about social minorities—inevitably because such films are
about social interaction and about the demands of social roles and social
responsibility.
While the spiritual journey of a sole individual is an important and peren-
nial topic, as I have said earlier in connection with conventional ⊚,
there is absolutely no reason why all films should be about this, and indeed,
in practice they aren’t.
In the following chapters I analyse three different families of ensemble
films, all different in structure and philosophy.
Tandem ⊚
examples are: Traffic, Lantana, Nashville, Caramel, City of Hope, Me and You
and Everyone We Know, Love Actually, Pan’s Labyrinth, Daybreak, Short Cuts
and Crimes and Misdemeanors.
The term ‘in tandem’ has come to mean ‘at the same time’, so tandem nar-
rative is a good name for films that use equally important stories on the same
⊙, running simultaneously in the same time frame and geographical
area, with the film’s action jumping between stories. Tandem ⊚ films
are usually didactic and span a wide range of society, the moral being that
all of the characters are affected by the same socio-political problem or are
impacted by the same social malaise. a good motto for these films is: ‘same
⊙, different adventures’.
mulTIPle ⊛ ⊚
examples are: Revolutionary Road, American Beauty, The Jane Austen Book
Club, Mystic River, Little Miss Sunshine, Galaxy Quest, The Big Chill, Monsoon
Wedding, After the Wedding, Ordinary People, Love! Valor! Compassion!, As It
Is in Heaven, Last Orders, The Full Monty and Saving Private Ryan.
These are films about a small team of people thrown together in a group
‘adventure’ which is specifically a quest, a reunion or a siege (emotional and/
or actual). crucially, all of the main characters in these films are versions of
the same ⊛. The motto here is: ‘same team, same adventure’.
douBle JourneyS ⊚
examples are: Vicky Cristina Barcelona, Brokeback Mountain, The Propo-
sition, The Queen, The Lives of Others, The Lemon Tree, The Departed and
Finding Nemo.
Six categories of parallel ⊚ 175
double journey films are actually multiple ⊛ films that deal
with a very specific relationship; namely, two characters journeying either
towards each other, in parallel, or apart (physically, emotionally or both). The
motto here is: ‘two lives in parallel’.
films with time jumps (non-linear)
as I have mentioned, there are three sorts, flashback, a form I name ‘con-
secutive stories’ and a hybrid term ‘fractured tandem’. We can expect more
hybrids.
flaShBaCk
There are six varieties of flashback, some simple, some complex, each serving
a different story purpose. sometimes films will have several kinds.
1 Flashback as illustration: a simple backstory device, as when, for
example, a detective asks: ‘Where were you on the night of april 5?’
and we flash back to what happened.
2 Regret flashback: non-chronological fragments from an unsuccessful
love relationship (as in Annie Hall and And When Did You Last See
Your Father?).
3 Bookend flashback: a ⊕ or ⊟ in the present that appears
at the start and the end of the film, ‘bookending’ the story (for
example, Saving Private Ryan and Fight Club).
4 Preview flashback: the film starts on a ⊕ or ⊟ midway
or two-thirds through, then flashes back to the start, running
through chronologically to the end (as in ⊯ Clayton and
Goodfellas).
5 Life-changing incident flashback: one life-changing moment is
revealed bit by bit in one flashback shown several times incrementally
(for example, Catch-22).
6 Double ⊚ flashback: two or more complete stories centered
on one enigmatic outsider are told in different time frames, with the
action jumping back and forth between the two. Films in this form
drop into two categories according to their view of human nature and
each is structured differently. They are:
•
Flashback as thwarted dream (as in Slumdog Millionaire, The
English Patient)
•
Flashback as case history (as in Citizen Kane, The Usual
Suspects)
176 The 21st-Century Screenplay
ConSeCuTIVe STorIeS (In SCrIPTWrITInG uPdaTed,
Termed ‘SeQuenTIal ⊚’)
These are films that use separate stories (with separate protagonists) told one
after the other, coming together at the end. Their point is to make a political
or philosophical comment. There are four main sorts, and I’ve given them
names that can be used as mottos.
1 Stories walking into the picture: new protagonists walk into shot
and the film switches to their stories (e.g. The Circle, Ten)
2 Different perspectives: different versions of the same event
(e.g. Run Lola Run); or different characters’ views of the same events
(e.g. Rashomon)
3 Different consequences from the same event (e.g. Atonement)
4 Fractured frame/portmanteau: several stories are split up and held
within one story, which forms a frame (e.g. Pulp Fiction, The Butterfly
Effect, City of God, The Joy Luck Club). Films in this form are actually
fractured forms of either (a) stories walking into the film or
(b) different-perspectives.
hybrid
fraCTured Tandem
Fractured tandem runs equally important tandem narratives but fractures
them, jumping between time frames. examples are: 21 Grams, Babel, Crash,
Three Burials of Melchiades Estrada and The Hours. essentially, it is tandem
⊚ chopped up and put together out of chronological ⊟ in
order to pump up speed and transmit a philosophy about accidental tra-
gedies and tragic, unforeseen consequences.
autobiographical narrator using ⊞-over
The ⊞-over autobiographer narrator, honest or unreliable, can appear in
all parallel ⊚ forms. It causes significant structural changes in dou-
ble ⊚ flashback. some films have a narrator who tells someone else’s
story, not their own, and who is either a minor player in the action, or simply
an unidentified storyteller. ⊞-over ⊚ can pull a parallel ⊚
off course as much as it can a conventional ⊚, so should be used with
care (see pp. 301–2).
177
Chapter 22
Which structure suits my film?
The FIrsT QUesTION WrITers ask about parallel ⊚ is whether
it suits their material. later chapters provide detailed guidelines to writing
in each of the parallel ⊚ forms with analyses of films in those forms
and suggestions as to how you might use the structure of an individual film
as a template. so, if you feel a structure like that of The Joy Luck Club or 21
Grams might suit your story material, you will find practical suggestions for
using it as a model. In this chapter I provide a checklist, but use it only as a
starting point because (a) sometimes your material may be told in different
ways, hence may suit a range of forms and (b) you might need to invent a
hybrid.
Tandem ⊚
examples: Traffic, Lantana, Gomorrah, Caramel, City of Hope, Nashville,
Break of Day
SuBJeCT maTTer
If you are thinking: ‘I want to show how a socio-political problem and/or
human foibles affect a broad cross-section of society’, this is probably the
form for you. Tandem films contain equally important but separate stories
(each with its own ⊛) running simultaneously on the same ⊙.
If your material is a group of about six characters on a joint adventure with a
shared goal, see the multiple ⊛ form below. The mottos are useful
here. Multiple ⊛ form is: ‘same team, same adventure’; tandem is:
‘same ⊙, different adventures’.
multiple ⊛
examples: The Full Monty, Burn After Reading, American Beauty, The Jane
Austen Book Club, The Magnificent Seven
177
178 The 21st-Century Screenplay
SuBJeCT maTTer
Multiple ⊛ is probably the form you need if you feel you want to write
about a group of people or an individual affected by a group or an individual
affecting a group or a ‘team’ on a group quest, siege or reunion ‘adventure’. The
group’s views and responses are always central to a multiple ⊛ film.
Not all films in which groups appear are multiple ⊛ stories. Films like
The Counterfeiters and Four Weddings and a Funeral that follow only one mem-
ber of the group are one-hero stories, not multiple ⊛ films.
story material in multiple ⊛ form is typically a quest, reunion or
siege, or a combination of these, with subject matter as follows:
QueSTS
1 ‘One last job’: for example, Ocean’s Eleven, Space Cowboys, Crouching
Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Sleepers
2 ‘Soldiers on a mission’: for example, Saving Private Ryan, The
Magnificent Seven, Stand by Me, Galaxy Quest, The Band’s Visit
3 ‘The Cinderella sports team’: for example, The Mighty Ducks,
Brassed Off, A League of Their Own
4 ‘Let’s put on a show’: for example, The Full Monty, The Commitments,
Cosi, Little Miss Sunshine, Calendar Girls
5 ‘Group journeys’: (group prison break, holiday etc.) for example, The
Great Escape, National Lampoon Vacation, City Slickers
reunIonS
1 Weddings and funerals: for example, Monsoon Wedding, Death at a
Funeral, The Big Chill, Radiance
2 Regular club/class: for example, The Jane Austen Book Club, Italian
for Beginners, Love! Valor! Compassion!, The Dinner Guest
3 Seeking out the family/prodigal returns: for example, You Can
Count on Me, All About My Mother
SIeGe fIlmS (emoTIonal and aCTual)
1 Troubled families: for example, To Live, Ordinary People, Little Miss
Sunshine
2 Prisons, actual or metaphorical: for example, The Great Escape,
Chicken Run, Paradise Grove, Deliverance, Cocoon
(Note: not all prison stories are multiple ⊛ films. The Shaw-
shank Redemption and The Green Mile, for example, are mentor
⊣ films).
Which structure suits my film? 179
3 Coming of age: for example, Tea with Mussolini, The Magnificent
Seven
4 Save our town!: for example, Waking Ned Devine, Local Hero,
The Swamp Dwellers, Italian for Beginners, Mystic River, As It Is in
Heaven
5 Comic heist: for example, Burn After Reading, Ruthless People
6 Social siege: for example, American Beauty, Revolutionary Road
double journey
examples: The Lives of Others, Vicky Cristina Barcelona, Brokeback Mountain,
The Lemon Tree, The Queen, The Departed
SuBJeCT maTTer
Use this for films involving two central characters, who are journeying either
towards, apart or in parallel with each other physically, emotionally or both.
Because they are seen so often apart, interacting with other characters, both
travellers need their own plotline.
double ⊚ flashback
examples: Slumdog Millionaire, Milk, Shine, Amadeus, Citizen Kane
SuBJeCT maTTer
These films always have at least one complete story in the present and one
in the past and jump between the two for the whole film. subject matter
involves one or more of the following:
1 someone having to find out about the past of an enigmatic person,
often dead, traumatised or unwilling to speak (for example, Citizen
Kane, The Bridges of Madison County)
2 someone returning to scenes from their past but also having an
adventure in the present (for example, Remains of the Day, The End of
the Affair)
3 someone pursuing a lost dream from their past (for example, Shine,
Slumdog Millionaire)
4 the life of a charismatic, larger-than-life individual (for example, The
Life of David Gale, Amadeus)
other flashback forms
There are several other flashback forms that are not double ⊚. These are
films that either: insert a linear ⊚ inside one ⊕ or ⊟ from
180 The 21st-Century Screenplay
the present (as in, for example, The Green Mile, Fight Club, Titanic) or take a
⊕ from the ⊦ or end of the film and put it at the start before running
straight from ⊤ to end (as in, for example, The Hangover, Good fellas,
⊯ Clayton) or show non-chronological fragments from a failed past
relationship (as in, for example, Annie Hall, And When Did You Last See Your
Father?). These forms are dealt with in a later chapter. Time jumps also appear
in consecutive stories form and fractured tandem (see below).
Consecutive stories structure
examples: Run Lola Run, Groundhog Day, Atonement, Pulp Fiction
SuBJeCT maTTer
Use this for films that need complete or almost-complete stories (often on the
notion of ‘truth’) appearing one after the other (even if the ⊨ is tradi-
tional, or if there is a bookend frame), often with their own titles.
sub-categories are:
1 Stories walking into the picture: that is, stories simply happening one
after the other, linking at the end (as in The Circle and Paris, je t’aime)
2 Different perspectives: that is, different versions or points of view of
the same events (as in Run Lola Run, Vantage Point, Groundhog Day
and Rashomon)
3 Different consequences: that is, different outcomes from the same
events (as in Go and Atonement)
4 Fractured frame/portmanteau: that is, fractured versions of one of
the three above, using one split-up story to act like a bookend or a
portmanteau (as in Pulp Fiction, City of God and The Joy Luck Club)
fractured tandem structure
examples: 21 Grams, Babel, The Hours, Three Burials of Melchiades Estrada,
Crash, Rendition
SuBJeCT maTTer
These films involve fractured versions of equally important stories. This is
probably the form for you if your subject matter involves:
1 unexpected, often tragic, connections between apparently or initially
very disparate people, triggered by an accident or random event
2 several equally important stories, some or all fractured, running
simultaneously sometimes in the same time frame, but often in
several
Which structure suits my film? 181
3 consequences, chain reactions
Fractured tandem can also be used to inject suspense and a detective story
element into predictable tandem ⊚ scripts.
do you need parallel ⊚ at all?
parallel ⊚ is so exciting that writers often seize upon it for the sheer
joy of playing with multiple stories. however, wrongly used, parallel nar-
rative can be actively destructive. a case in point is Pay It Forward, which
has a very interesting story in the past but utilises a double ⊚ flash-
back structure that burdens the film with a redundant story in the present.
The heat of Pay It Forward is the story in the past, about the relationships
between a lonely young boy, his reclusive teacher and his single mother. The
story in the present—of a journalist trying to trace a boy who invented the
idea of repaying a favour by doing a favour to a complete stranger—simply
interrupts its flow. The only ⊚ point of the story in the present is to
explain what ‘pay it forward’ means. Once that’s been explained, very early
on, the story in the present adds nothing, in fact it actively reduces. Vantage
Point has similar problems. setting out to tell a story from eight different
viewpoints, style triumphs over substance and the film ends up repeating the
same tiny fragment of action again and again, before cutting, finally, to a car
chase.
To make sure you need parallel ⊚, pick out what, precisely, is the
‘heat’ of the film you’re planning to write—that is, what its core ideas and
interests are—and check that the structure you’re considering actually serv-
ices that heat.
Section 1
Tandem ⊚
Chapter 23
Tandem ⊚: an introduction
sUccessFUl TaNdeM ⊚ FIlMs consist of equally important
stories (each with its own ⊛ and each on the same socio- political
⊙) unfolding simultaneously and chronologically in the same time
frame. The films are always didactic and typically deal with communities. In
some the ⊙ is more overtly political than others. If it is particularly polit-
ical, the film will make its point by spanning a whole community from top to
bottom, from the ruler to the beggar, often openly calling for change. some-
times, like Syriana, it will even span different countries. examples include:
Traffic, Nashville, Love Actually, Caramel, Independence Day, Daybreak, City
of Hope, Lantana, Me and You and Everyone We Know, Syriana, Magnolia,
Pan’s Labyrinth, Short Cuts and Crimes and Misdemeanors.
While the telling of equally weighted but often unconnected and very dif-
ferent stories alongside each other is revolutionary in mainstream film, in
television it is standard, and television inherited it from the stage. It derives
from the traditional and highly successful formula of ‘main ⊗ and two
subplots’ found in drama at least as far back as shakespeare. Today, TV leads
the way in using new ⊚ structures, using multiple and often only
remotely connected stories told in parallel, incorporating techniques like
time jumps, dream sequences and so on. It is no coincidence that tandem
182
Tandem ⊚: an introduction 183
⊚ writers like stephen gaghan (Traffic, Syriana) and paul haggis
(Crash) have wide experience in TV writing.
⊙ and moral are hugely important in these films, and the writing
motto here is: ‘same ⊙, different adventures’, which reminds us that all
the various stories have to illustrate the film’s ⊙ in different ways. In
Traffic, the ⊙ is the war on drugs. In Lantana it is trust and honesty in
marital or quasi-marital relationships. In Caramel, it is the social pressures
on a group of women friends in modern Beirut.
always, the challenge with these films is to make them good stories, not
just sermons, or variations on a ⊙ (which in effect usually means char-
acters in search of a ⊗).
Predictability
The elephant in the room as far as tandem ⊚ films are concerned
is predictability, particularly in overtly political films, where the message
unfortunately often comes over as: ‘if anything bad can happen it will’. so, in
City of Hope, will the ethical young councillor become involved in cronyism
and nepotism? Yes. In Traffic, will the beautiful, talented schoolgirl become
a junkie? Yes. In Syriana, will the decent young Muslim boys become terror-
ists? Yes. Syriana, for all its great performances and important topic, is a film
that suffers from predictability (see part 5, lost in the Telling), as does City
of Hope.
earlier, talking about the second-act turning point, I explained that the
⊛’s decision to fight back against the odds and the third-act battle
to win were necessary to prevent the film becoming a predictable descent
into catastrophe, resulting in zero suspense and a disengaged audience.
however, the problem with overtly political tandem films is that they often
need to show people not winning. They need to show typical (hence pre-
dictable) outcomes. If your film is about the suffering of the poor, it needs
to depict the suffering of the poor. If it is about how heroin can wreck lives,
it needs to show how heroin can wreck lives. however, if the only unpre-
dictable elements in your film are how bad things will become and whether
anyone at all will escape catastrophe, your film may well end up extremely
boring. as we’ll see, there are a number of ways of reducing predictability,
⊮ is an inbuilt problem of the form, so needs constant attention.
Tandem films are all about connections
connections are of paramount importance in tandem ⊚. audiences
come to tandem films with the question: ‘Why these stories?’, expecting
182
184 The 21st-Century Screenplay
clever and thought-provoking links between all of the stories so they add
together to create one coherent message. If you don’t provide sufficient
connections and a clear message, they are likely to reject the film, just as
certain audiences rejected outright the fine fractured tandem ⊚
Babel because they felt the Japanese girl’s story was insufficiently connected.
It didn’t matter that they loved everything else. The more connections, the
more room for suspense and audience engagement, so, usually, the wider
the appeal of the film.
successful tandem films achieve connection, meaning and closure
between their stories in a wide variety of ways. The evolution of Nashville,
regarded by many as the iconic tandem ⊚ film from the Us, provides
some very useful insights into why connections are needed and how they
can be formed. luckily, in an interview available on the widescreen dVd
of the film, robert altman describes very clearly how the film’s structure
evolved and, fascinatingly, reveals that from the ⊤ he and his team
were focused on connections—because they knew that without them there
wouldn’t be a proper film.
altman explains that Nashville came into being because United art-
ists had just bought a Nashville-based country music publishing company.
They commissioned him to create a film about the city and its music. alt-
man decided to look at what he called ‘the hollywood syndrome’ at work in
Nashville and ‘to take this country–western culture and a populist kind of
culture [then] put [them] into a panorama [to] reflect american sensibilities
and politics’. These were his themes and he organised his team so as to cre-
ate a film about them. he sent writer Joan Tewkesbury to Nashville, and her
diary of events (including the freeway pile-up) formed the spine of the film.
however, as storytellers, altman and his team knew this was not enough.
The ⊙ would not be properly transmitted just by providing a panorama
of typical Nashville people in typical Nashville stories. To make a coherent
film there had to be one overarching story that linked all of the stories and
characters together, otherwise the film would become a series of vignettes—
animated portraits without a moral or emotional point.
consequently, and consciously, altman chose a political campaign as the
overarching story, and the team created a story about the campaign manager,
who, together with a local lawyer, is organising public rallies and fundraisers
for a politician seeking preselection for president as all of the other stories are
going on. Obviously, the issue of who becomes president links everyone in a
city, from top to bottom, so already the campaign story provides connection.
however, to further knit the film together—to make the political story more
Tandem ⊚: an introduction 185
vivid and personal—each of the film’s separate stories and each of its kalei-
doscope of characters actually intersects in some way with the campaign,
with the film’s tragic ⊝ happening at a political rally, at which all of the
characters are assembled either to watch or to perform.
he further linked the stories by what he called ‘connecting tissue’, mean-
ing characters who could credibly move between the many stories and thus
link them, characters like the BBc reporter and the enigmatic bicycle man.
Notice how all of these are dynamic ⊚ devices, story devices; that
is, characters actually doing things towards a goal. This is our job as writers:
to create a fable, to get the message across through the scenario.
TyPeS of ConneCTIon
good tandem films are like a piece of fabric. The separate stories make the
horizontal threads, and the different kinds of connections between the stor-
ies provide the vertical threads that weave all the stories together. all good
tandem ⊚ films feature some or all of the following connections and
connection devices.
⊙ and meSSaGe
⊙ is the most vital connection in tandem. all tandem ⊚ films are
didactic and have a socio-political ⊙ (sometimes very political, some-
times not) illustrated differently through each separate story. Usually the
films are critical of society, and the message is a call for change; in less politi-
cal films, a change of heart, in more political films, a change of social policy.
ePIC aPProaCh—a WIde ranGe of TyPeS WIThIn a ChoSen
SoCIal GrouP
To reflect tandem ⊚’s concern with what’s wrong with communities
and how we should fix it, tandem ⊚ films are often epic, panoramic,
spanning a wide range of social types, sometimes an entire society (as in
Traffic), sometimes a minority group (as in Caramel). Usually, the more
overtly political, the wider the social spread (as in Syriana, which spans sev-
eral countries). The title Me and You and Everyone We Know says it all.
GeoGraPhy and TIme
events happen in the same time frame and characters often literally walk into
and out of each other’s stories (although characters may not always know
each other when they pass). geography and time usually connect characters
in the film’s final moments. In some cases, the final moments are the first
186 The 21st-Century Screenplay
time characters from different stories connect (as in Crimes and Misdemean-
ors), which can provide an interesting and pleasing twist.
CharaCTerS aPPearInG In a numBer of dIfferenT STorIeS
characters play a part in several different stories. hence, in Lantana, the
police officer goes into all of the different couples’ lives; in Traffic, the judge
is involved with characters from a number of the stories; in City of Hope,
characters are connected with each other by marriage, job and intersecting
stories. This is altman’s ‘connecting tissue’.
faCIlITaTInG CharaCTerS
These are characters who talk a lot about other characters, providing crucial
information. They may or may not appear in several stories. In Nashville, the
BBc reporter making a documentary about Nashville was a conscious device
inserted to provide information and connection. altman says: ‘We decided
we needed a ⊞, a reporter to ask the questions that the audience has to
know’, a character who ‘could touch everybody’.
dISaSTer
some kind of social catastrophe links all of the stories, symbolising the con-
nections across community, either triggering the main story (Independence
Day) or winding it up (Nashville). a final catastrophe coming out of the blue,
though, can feel contrived (like the earthquake in Short Cuts). conversely,
a final catastrophe that is too clearly signalled and happens without a twist
(as in, say, a film in which a range of different characters all finally board the
same train, which crashes) can be boringly, even comically, predictable.
oBJeCTS, BehaVIourS and SImIlar CharaCTerS
stories may be connected by objects (for example, the same kind of flower
appears in each); behaviours (for example, all characters are diabetic or all
have tried to commit suicide) or similar backgrounds (for example, all char-
acters have suffered unhappy childhoods). however, if the only connection
you have between your stories is that, for example, a yellow rose figures in
each, it is unlikely to have the same emotional punch as films that have more
connections; indeed, it could appear whimsical.
TWo-STory Tandem ⊚
some tandem ⊚ films have only two stories, linked only at the start
or end, sometimes both. The structure is specifically designed to transmit
Tandem ⊚: an introduction 187
the film’s themes and message, and pleasing suspense and closure of the film
depend on how the two stories eventually connect. examples are Crimes and
Misdemeanors (two stories linked by a meeting at a wedding), Pan’s Laby-
rinth (a small child’s different realities meet in death) and Sliding Doors (two
possible directions for a life). In all cases, suspense, connection, meaning
and closure are achieved by the twist ⊥—so the twist needs to be clever.
The maCro ⊗: The STronGeST forCe for ConneCTIon
I have left the most important connecting device until last. This is the macro
⊗, the overarching ⊗ that altman and his team knew was necessary to
create unity in Nashville. It is the strongest ⊚ device for connection in
tandem narratives and needs to be looked at in depth.
Chapter 24
The macro in tandem ⊚
WheN We Feel a tandem ⊚ film is characters in search of a
⊗, the macro is the ⊗ that’s missing. Figure 24.1 shows how the plots
are constructed in Nashville, with the film’s macro, the political campaign
story, being an overarching ⊗ that, as well as linking all of the other stories,
dynamically illustrates the film’s ⊙, and brings the message home.
The macro ⊗ affects all of society, from top to bottom, so it links all the
characters. The ⊙ is: ‘The Hollywood syndrome in Nashville, and
American sensibilities and politics.’
Macro: the political campaign ⊗ showing the campaign manager and
lawyer organising fundraisers and rallies for Hal Phillip Walker
1. Stories on 2. Different 3. Different 4. Different 5. Different
the ⊙ versions of the versions of versions of the versions of the
featuring ⊙ shown ⊙ shown ⊙ shown ⊙ shown
people from in stories in stories in stories in stories
the top of about the next about the next about the about people
Nashville class down; class down; working at the bottom
society; the the ⊦- tourists people of of the social
successful class residents visiting Nashville ladder;
singers, either of Nashville Nashville aspiring
resident or singers
visiting
figure 24.1 The plots in nashville
In Independence Day, the macro is the alien invasion story (linking a variety
of separate stories happening in different places). In Lantana, it’s the murder
investigation (linking a series of couples across a city). In Traffic, it’s the judge’s
war on drugs (linking individuals and families across the Us and Mexico), and
in City of Hope, it is the attempts by crooked councillors to replace the ghetto
with an upmarket shopping mall (linking everyone across the neighbourhood).
188
The macro in tandem ⊚ 189
dynamic connection
Imagine each of the films above without their macro plots. all that’s left is a
set of interesting stories loosely linked by the same ⊙: vignettes. There
is no energising forward momentum. The macro adds energy, impact and
vitally—dynamic connection. It occurs in most but not all tandem ⊚
films and is a very reliable way of providing thematic and story momentum,
of adding, to both ⊙ and action, ‘a point’.
Technically, the macro operates like the action line—the adventure—in
conventional ⊚. It permits all of the other stories to happen—just as
the journey down the river in The African Queen permitted the love story to
happen.
In many tandem narratives, there is no strong connection between the
various stories until the macro starts. Before that, all of the characters are just
living their normal lives. The macro creates a common problem. all of the
other stories are pegged to the macro and all are pulled by it towards a joint
⊝ and successful closure, just as, in conventional ⊚, the action
line pulls the relationship line along. The macro affects the whole group,
from top to bottom, richest to poorest, so links all of the characters.
about the macro
CrIme, deaTh and The TICkInG CloCk
Macros often involve crime, death and a ticking clock, logically, because these
add jeopardy. even Caramel, a very gentle tandem ⊚ film, has a macro
involving a ticking clock and women involved in breaking society’s rules.
The maCro needS To GeT STarTed QuICkly
Interestingly, many audiences felt Lantana was uncomfortably slow before
the start of the murder ⊗. Writer andrew Bovell and director ray law-
rence knew this and took a calculated risk that the film would hold the
audience’s attention until this point. The gamble paid off, ⊮ was a gamble.
The lesson here is that the longer the macro takes to get started, the more risk
there is of the audience getting restless.
maCro aS a rePeaTed reSPonSe
While crime and death do figure in many macros, the macro doesn’t have
to be heavy on crime, neither does it have to be a highly structured ⊗,
it just has to involve a chain of actions that carry the film’s message. Cara-
mel’s macro is not a proper story, not a ⊗ building to a ⊝ at all, yet it
does the job of holding all the stories together and transmitting the message.
188
190 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Caramel’s macro is a series of fragments—actions—showing the women
acting as a group to help each other when one of their number is suffering
because of social mores. so, the women come as a group to comfort their
friend whose married boyfriend does not turn up for the anniversary cel-
ebration she has set up. They accompany a member of the group to hospital
to have an operation that fakes virginity. They help the elderly woman in
the shop across the road look glamorous for her new boyfriend, and keep a
watch on the demented old lady she has to care for. Note that the group acts,
not just one or two of the group.
must you have a macro?
a macro adds energy and focus to a tandem ⊚ film, but whether you
use one depends on the kind of film you want to make. sometimes you might
want to make a more restrained and open-ended film. Without the murder
investigation which is its macro, Lantana would simply be ‘different versions
of loyalty and honesty in romantic relationships’, making the film quieter,
slower and more meditative than it is—which would have been fine, just dif-
ferent. It would have been more like the swedish film Daybreak, also on the
⊙ of marital relationships, which does not have a macro. Daybreak is
linked by time and place (all of the stories happen on the same night in the
same city), and at the end the characters all pass each other on the street. The
result is a very successful but restrained, cerebral, more art-house film.
The same is true of Me and You and Everyone We Know, which also has no
macro. Its ⊙, demonstrated over a number of stories, is, in the words of
writer–director Miranda July: ‘children and adults trying to figure out how to
touch each other, in every sense of the word’. The stories are poignant, inno-
cent and gentle, which is remarkable because a significant part of the content
deals with sexual interest and attraction between children and adults.
dread Can almoST Take The PlaCe of a maCro
One of the interesting things about Daybreak and Me and You and Everyone
We Know is that both, but particularly the latter, use the threat of something
terrible possibly happening to the characters to energise the story by adding
the magic ingredient, suspense.
Me and You and Everyone We Know is highly suspenseful because the
threat of sexual assault against adults but also, shockingly, against children,
hangs over the community, and we dread that the film will ⊝ in an attack.
This is handy to know: in a tandem ⊚, a threat hanging over the com-
munity can create high levels of suspense because the audience assumes that
The macro in tandem ⊚ 191
the point of the film is to show the threat eventuating. arriaga uses dread like
this very effectively in Babel, as we’ll see later.
The power of a macro
a macro in Me and You and Everyone We Know would logically have had
to be an overarching plotline, linking all the stories that illustrated Ms July’s
⊙ of ‘children and adults trying to figure out how to touch each other in
every sense of the word’. It’s hard to imagine any macro ⊗ that would illus-
trate this ⊙ apart from one involving actual sexual assault. This would
have shifted the film into very dark territory, the territory of Lantana, to
become an emotional thriller about violent sexual crime; more horrific than
Lantana, actually, because it would need to be sexual crime involving chil-
dren. such a thing would have been a travesty of the delicate, gentle film Ms
July wanted to make.
Interestingly, the film has its cake and eats it. dread of an assault provides
tension but lack of assault provides the warm delicate ⊥ the director–
writer was after. however, for someone who wanted to make a hard-hitting
film about sexual assault, a macro would have provided the requisite impact.
The trick here is to know what effect and what audience you are after.
PolITICal ConTenT
Noticeably, all of the films that operate well without a macro are films that are
not trying to push any strong reformist political line.
maCro aS The dIfferenCe BeTWeen BIG SCreen and
Small SCreen?
Many tandem narratives that don’t have macros were originally made as
telemovies. This is interesting: is the macro therefore what makes a tandem
⊚ film a feature? certainly, it is easier to market a film that has a
strong macro ⊗, and films without a macro are definitely more art-house.
only promise a macro and ⊗ connection if
you intend to pay it off
You don’t need a macro but you do need connection and a coherent mes-
sage. Magnolia is a remarkable and often very moving tandem ⊚
film containing nine complete and emotionally charged, high-jeopardy
narratives all happening on the same day in california’s san Fernando Val-
ley. each has a strong three-act structure building to a powerful ⊝.
There is no macro.
192 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Unfortunately, for many people its ⊥ is unsatisfactory because while
there are thematic connections between the stories (all characters are con-
nected via a TV quiz show and all of the stories are about the difficulty of
attaining love, particularly problematic parent–child relationships), and
while all happen in the same geographical area, with all of the characters
finally experiencing the same freak weather condition resulting in frogs rain-
ing down from the sky, there is no real coming-together of the stories, no
answer to the questions: ‘Why these stories in particular? Why not others?’
The problem is exacerbated because the film starts with a kind of prologue
listing three extraordinary coincidences, which sets up an expectation that
the film will end with coincidence; indeed, suggests that the point of the
film will be an amazing final coincidence involving all of the stories, pos-
sibly echoing the coincidences in the prologue, so that ‘coincidence’ becomes
the macro. But there are no coincidences and the stories do not intercon-
nect—even in the simple but pleasing way they do in Daybreak, by characters
passing each other in the street unawares.
certainly, a policeman who appears in two stories makes an appearance
in a third because he happens to see a character from another story commit-
ting a crime (which, at a stretch, could be seen as a coincidence) but this is
all. The plotlines just don’t deal with the promised coincidence. This is unlike
Me and You and Everyone We Know, which, having promised horrific cli-
maxes, delivers by showing us ⊝ scenes that might end horribly or sadly
but actually end poignantly and in ways that are life-affirming.
so, while Magnolia’s direction is impressive and its performances and
individual stories often magnificent, it’s hard to pick the film’s overall mes-
sage, or point. What the frogs symbolise (if they are meant to be symbolic) is
unclear. The linking device whereby all the cast sing the same song provides
a kind of connection but does so by taking the film into surrealism, which
has a distancing effect and inevitably undercuts the emotional impact cre-
ated by naturalism. The unfortunate thing here is that very probably the lack
of connection would not have been so noticeable if connection via coinci-
dence hadn’t been set up so strongly at the start as the film’s ⊙. had the
prologue instead consisted of striking stories that were pertinent to the film’s
⊥, closure might well have been very satisfactory indeed. as it is, you
get the sense that the prologue and the raining frogs are a great ⊨ and
a great ⊥—to another film.
perhaps the lessons here are that in tandem ⊚:
•
audiences assume there will be a connection between stories
•
meaning and closure are created through connection
The macro in tandem ⊚ 193
•
you don’t need a macro but you do need sufficient connection
between the stories to explain why you chose those stories and no
other
•
either pay off on a specific promise of connection or don’t promise it
Short Cuts: Some audiences love open-ended
films
Short Cuts has no macro and, while it is a highly memorable film with
wonderful performances, passion, and wit, it lacks pace, connection, clear
meaning and closure. Short Cuts employs ten narratives about residents of
los angeles. characters are connected by chance, physical proximity or fam-
ily relationships. sometimes stories cross each other, but many stories lack
suspense and there is often a choice to go for anticlimax and ‘slice of life’.
Technically, this results in some stories being internally repetitive, giving us
an ongoing normality with redundant ⊖. predictably, this has the effect
of slowing the film down.
The film opens with what seems like the set-up of a macro, as all the char-
acters experience helicopters spraying los angeles with insecticide, but the
insecticide story soon disappears altogether and one wonders why it was
there at all. The film ends with an earthquake affecting all the characters,
which, while it does provide connection of sorts, unfortunately feels a bit
convenient. It should be said that many people loved Short Cuts’ slowness,
lack of suspense, documentary flavour and lack of overall final ⊡.
They loved the fact that there was no closure and life just goes on.
In the end, these are matters of taste. Interestingly, though, the films of
altman that are most widely celebrated, films like Nashville and Gosford
Park, do have macros (in both cases, a murder story). so it could be argued
that altman at his most popular uses macros.
Chapter 25
Writing your tandem ⊚
film
IT’s VerY easY TO write a directionless tandem ⊚ because we writ-
ers love to write characters. For example, imagine your initial idea is ‘a film
about homelessness’. passionate about your topic, you will find it relatively
easy to write, say, five stories involving a range of different interesting home-
less people in different parts of the same city on the same day. however, while
this may well give you an interesting and possibly very poignant script, it is
unlikely to be a suspenseful one because your stories are not strongly con-
nected and you do not have a major plotline pulling them all towards a joint
⊝ (think of Lantana and Nashville without their macros). Your audience
is likely to be a little distanced from your characters, particularly if your piece
is very didactic (as we saw when looking at the second-act turning point,
endless disasters remove suspense and create audience disengagement).
This may be transmitting exactly what you want. If so, that’s fine. however,
if you want greater audience engagement and more dynamism, probably your
best chance is to add a macro; for example, ‘city authorities have decided that all
homeless people must be removed from the streets in preparation for the Olym-
pic games’. suddenly, your characters, rather than just being themselves, locked
in their normality or being pulled by poverty into catastrophe, are faced with a
threat and must react as only they would do. They have either to fight back or
be crushed and both of these provide action and a building ⊚. as writer,
you are in a win-win situation. You still have all of your wonderful characters
in their individual stories, but you have added suspense, and can explore your
characters via action, as they engage in their different adventures on the film’s
⊙. You will also have the chance to explore, dynamically, via a parable, a
wide cross-section of society, from the decision-makers to the homeless, thereby
setting your stories in their social context, as part of a flawed system.
Change of focus
The hardest thing about creating a good macro is that, unless your film idea
has actually presented itself to you as a macro for a tandem ⊚ (‘I want
194
Writing your tandem ⊚ film 195
to write a movie about how a country about to put on the Olympic games
clears the homeless off the streets’), to make the macro genuinely gripping
and more than just a transparent connecting device, you have to completely
refocus so that you see the film as being about its macro. The macro has to
be what you would describe on the dVd cover. Instead of thinking of your
film as a means to tell your series of separate stories about homelessness, you
now have to see it as a film akin to my Olympic games story idea. You have
to think: ‘city authorities are removing homeless people from the streets and
trouble breaks out’. This way, instead of being characters in search of a ⊗,
your film is defined by its overarching ⊗—which is genuinely an action line
permitting a series of relationship lines to happen (as in Traffic or Lantana).
You can see this mental shift in altman when, after describing his ⊙
and the fact that he actually had to insert a political campaign to link the
stories he set out to tell, he says in a complete reversal: ‘We were doing a
political campaign and everything else that happened in the film Nashville
[was] just a bunch of stor ies that supported a bunch of characters.’ In fact, as
he’s just described the individual stories in the film came before the politi-
cal campaign, which was invented with the specific purpose of holding the
stories together. What’s happened here is that he’s simply shifted his mental
viewpoint. Now he’s seeing the individual stories as ribs coming off the spine
of the macro. The macro is now the film’s raison d’être, not just something
added on. That’s exactly the mental shift, the change in point of view, that you
need to happen because it means you are immersed in the macro. It then gets
written better and the whole film is improved.
however, the viewpoint switch is hard and counter-intuitive. It resembles
the difficult process you have to go through in creating a mentor ⊣
film, when what interests you is the mentor ⊣ but to properly tell
their story you have to invent and get inside the head of a new, much less
interesting ⊛. We’ll see a similar phenomenon in flashback, where
you want to tell a story set in a character’s past but to create the necessary
unfolding mystery for the audience you have to invent and immerse yourself
in a new story, a second story, set in the present.
avert predictability
as we’ve seen, the biggest problem hanging over tandem ⊚ films, par-
ticularly overtly political ones, is predictability. The first step towards averting
predictability in your didactic tandem ⊚ is to accept that while you
are passionate about transmitting your message, didacticism and predict-
ability could kill your script. Next, accept that your audience may not share
194
196 The 21st-Century Screenplay
your beliefs. reject the idea that your job is simply to catalogue a predictable
descent into misery and disaster. set yourself the task of constructing a clever
fable—a parable—so full of surprises and so powerful that it will convert
even those opposed to your views.
surprises are the key. Think of using characters acting out of character—
for example, a coward becomes brave or a teenager who looks set to become
a hopeless junkie recovers while the teenager who seems set to recover
becomes heavily addicted—although avoid clichés.
as long as you stay credible and unsentimental, you can make fate
intervene to cause a sudden, unexpected twist, so that the drug lord dies
a fluke death that sends the ⊗ in a new direction, or an endangered
child is suddenly removed by a grandparent. Traffic is full of twists and
turns in character; most particularly, the survival of the apparently
doomed Mexican policeman, his honour intact. This means we can accept
the occasional predictable demise, like beautiful-talented-schoolgirl-to-
hopeless-junkie.
The macro is usually your greatest weapon against predictability (the
Mexican policeman’s story is a crucial part of the macro in Traffic) because
the macro is an action-line story, an adventure, which can be constructed
to include suspenseful twists and turns while, in the background, in the
individual stories, the social malaise can be seen causing the relentless
descent from bad to worse that you want to display. For example, in our
film about homelessness (‘city authorities have decided that all homeless
people must be removed from the streets in preparation for the Olym-
pics’) there can be all kinds of suspenseful elements in that macro plotline
while, in the background, we run more conventional linear homelessness
stories.
another option is Gomorrah’s trick, whereby suspense is injected into
a film about inevitable catastrophe by introducing the possibility of escape
(hope) and a constant threat of double-crossing. Work for suspense, always
remembering that suspense requires possibilities for escaping the threat.
consciously insert credible rays of hope that you can ultimately quash (or
not, if you want to go for a twist ⊥).
fractured tandem?
One radical, structural way to add pace to scenarios that might suffer from
predictability and/or be exposition-heavy is to use fractured tandem, the
form used in 21 Grams; that is, to deliberately chop up the stories and tell
them in a non-linear way. We will look at this later.
Writing your tandem ⊚ film 197
Great characters, real but unusual premise, new
world
all films, tandem included, need fascinating characters, a real but unusual
premise and an interesting new world. so, with our homeless movie, don’t go
for stereotypical homeless people; create something fascinating about them
(think of how fascinating and unusual arriaga makes el chivo, the derelict–
assassin in Amores Perros).
Technical plotting issues in tandem ⊚
Tandem ⊚, like all parallel ⊚, runs several storylines in the screen
time normally taken up by the one hero/one journey combination. hence, you
need to tell your stories very economically. The first step to creating and telling
economical stories is to reduce each story to its key dramatic moments (its turn-
ing points and its ⊝), the point beyond which it ceases to be the story. That
way, you know the minimum amount of the story you need to make it work,
because there is a limit to how much you can remove from, say, ‘cinderella’
before it ceases to be ‘cinderella’. We’ve discussed this earlier in the context of
the ⊪. What, in effect, you can remove are the second-act complica-
tions. You cannot remove any more or the story is no longer ‘cinderella’.
TrunCaTIon
removing the ⊦ of a story can work surprisingly well in tandem nar-
rative, permitting you to include a greater number of connected stories, thus
more versions of the ⊙. This happens in Love Actually, where none of the
love stories has a real ⊦ (which, coincidentally avoids romantic com-
edy’s perennial plotting challenge, to keep the loving couple credibly apart).
The other way you can truncate a story is to end it on its first-act turning
point (in ‘cinderella’, the arrival of the fairy godmother), which gives you
a thought-provoking surprise, or on its second-act turning point (in ‘cin-
derella’, losing the slipper at midnight) which gives you a tragedy. We’ll look
at the latter technique later in City of Hope. Truncation can also provide the
film’s point, as in Crimes and Misdemeanors, which cuts the third act of each
of its stories (a romantic comedy and a film noir murder tale) to make the
point that life is not like a hollywood movie.
⊥ at a turning point means ⊥ at a moment of suspense. Fas-
cinatingly, as we’ll see, audiences don’t seem to mind being left in mid air
like this (although they might if the truncated story were central rather than
peripheral).
Whether you intend to use whole stories or to truncate, work out the
198 The 21st-Century Screenplay
three-act structure of each, including its ⊛. a skeletal version is
often fine; in fact, often you won’t have time for much more. The macro will
need three acts and major stories usually need to have three-act structures.
Minor stories can often be truncated, depending on what you want them to
say. For help in condensing plotlines see pp. 135–7.
InTerWeaVInG PloTS In Tandem narraTIVeS
Once you have worked out the key points of each of your stories, you need
to plan how to interweave these stories. Tandem ⊚ films contain so
many stories that you will often need to further several plotlines (plus char-
acter material) in one ⊕. Usually, tandem narratives solve this problem
by creating scenes into which new characters can literally walk to start a new
⊕. This not only increases speed and continuity but reinforces the stand-
ard tandem message that society is interconnected and we are all affected by
the problem at the centre of the film.
a good example of how to interweave stories occurs early on in City of
Hope, where sayles cleverly transmits backstory, character and relationship
material and sets up later action—all in one brief ⊟. Mike rizzo, the
jealous policeman, is driving along with his anti-corruption partner, Bill. Just
as they are discussing rizzo’s refusal to stay away from his estranged wife
angela, the ambitious, oily detective O’Brien drives by and stops (this is his
first appearance). The three men talk briefly, and O’Brien asks Mike and Bill
first to harass ramirez, whom we can infer to be a local criminal and second
whether they are going to the mayor’s fundraising dinner. as O’Brien leaves,
Bill describes O’Brien’s ambitions with contempt.
This extremely short ⊕ transmits an extraordinary amount of informa-
tion, and moreover, does it dynamically. It gives insights into Mike’s jealousy
(important for Nicky’s story); it reveals Bill’s honest and sensible character
(important for when Mike shoots Nicky, and Bill talks about a cover-up); it
shows O’Brien’s oiliness, ruthlessness and ambition (important for the macro,
for Joe’s story and for Nicky’s story); and it sets up the mayor’s fundraising
dinner, an event that is important at the end of the film (important for Wynn’s
story because Wynn and his followers storm the dinner to demand answers
from the mayor). Thus, information vital to five plots is set up in seconds in a
credible and unobtrusive way.
hoW To InTerWeaVe
do this at planning stage. Your index cards will help. Keep looking for ways to
knit plots together. If your characters live in close physical proximity, exploit
Writing your tandem ⊚ film 199
that. For example, if you need characters a and B to be quarrelling about
character c, make it happen in the café that belongs to character d who has
just come out of the kitchen after telling character e that their marriage is
over. Meanwhile, character F can be walking past the café window so that
when a and B’s ⊕ in the café is finished, you can cut without explanation
to character F in character g’s apartment asking for a loan (see also part 3,
practical plotting).
aTTaCh STorIeS To your ChronoloGICal maCro
structurally, your macro (if you have one) will be a big help because,
being an action line, it has an inbuilt timeline (for example, the decision
to remove the homeless, the plans, the attempts etc.) to which you can
attach your various stories. Once you have worked out the macro’s time-
line, material for all of the plots, from the homeless to the government
enforcers, will start to suggest itself. You might also want to write about
other characters pulled into the macro; say, the kindly grocer who hands
over food, or the angry road cleaner who hates the homeless. These are
facilitating characters, altman’s connective tissue. remember that every
time the macro ⊗ moves, it will pull the other stories along because it
will create consequences, hence character reactions, hence suspense. plan
the macro’s content carefully.
ProGreSSInG your STorIeS
all of the stories in a tandem ⊚ progress simultaneously. hence, if
you have six stories, the first step in story 1 will be followed by the first step
in story 2, the first step in story 3, and so on. When all the first steps have
been provided, you will tell all of the second steps in your stories (although of
course, you don’t have to stick to the same order each time). ⊗ each step of
each story, write each step on a card and arrange the cards to get good move-
ment, always remembering to make characters walk into each other’s stories
where possible. The cards will also permit clever, dramatic cuts between
stories.
Plan of action
proceed as follows:
1 set up normality in all plots except macro.
2 set up first step in macro.
3 set up first step in each story in response to first step of macro.
4 set up second step in macro.
200 The 21st-Century Screenplay
5 set up second step in each story in response to second step of
macro—and so on.
Of course, you can alter the order in which you visit each of the separate
non-macro stories. Try at all times to avoid predictability and work to factor
in surprise and suspense. having a ⊕ at or near the start that puts all or
many of the characters in the same place at the same time (as Nashville does)
has a unifying effect and tells us that we are in a group story.
achieve rising suspense and emotion across storylines by using robin
swicord’s technique of jumping stories so that the emotional level of the
⊕ you leave is the same as the emotional level of the ⊕ you enter.
sometimes a jump to a contrasting emotion works well too (see p. 234).
Creating a tandem ⊚ via actor
improvisation
If you plan to improvise a film with a large number of actors, the form to
use is tandem ⊚, because your actors can be divided into groups to
create different stories on the ⊙ and connected to a macro you provide.
If you try to use more than about six actors in a multiple ⊛ narra-
tive—that is, a film about a team on the same adventure—you are likely to
find you do not have the screen time to give each character the large amount
of exposure the film requires. You can see this problem in action in the film
Parallel Lives (which was devised via actor improvisation) and is discussed in
part 5, lost in the Telling.
Working with good actors in an improvisational setting can produce
excellent results, but actors are not trained to invent plots and they should
not be expected to. scripts produced in unfocused improvisation sessions
typically lack building ⊗ and instead feature emotional exchanges such
as redundant quarrelling, tears and unexpected sexual liaisons. You can see
this happening in Time Code. It is the result of actors adrift without a ⊗ or
backstory, trying, as they trained to do in improvisation sessions, to create
emotional situations out of the blue by means of confrontational behaviour.
Other results are ⊗ clichés coming out of panicked vertical imagination
(sudden house fires or violence, long-lost relatives, characters discovering
that they are related), which in the excitement of the workshop situation, can
get locked into the ⊗.
To get the most from your actors in an improvisational situation, define
your ⊙ and the location of your film and work with your actors to cre-
ate vivid characters and interconnected stories that illustrate the ⊙. For
Writing your tandem ⊚ film 201
example, imagine the ⊙ of the film is pollution. divide the actors into
groups, then ask each group to brainstorm towards a storyline based on
the idea of people in some way connected to pollution. This could result in
figurative treatments (for example, a relationship polluted by jealousy), or
physical treatments (an asthma attack induced by the pollution, or a worker
employed to dump pollutants).
If a macro ⊗ is appropriate, either you or your actors can invent it.
Your actors can suggest ways in which the macro could intersect with their
stories. They can also suggest connections between the stories—connec-
tions by blood, by geography, by time. all of the stories will then be made
to dovetail into the macro’s ⊝, which would be the ⊝ of the film
too, thus providing meaning and closure. This way you are exploiting the
actors’ improvisational skills for the maximum result, creating a connected,
richly layered thematic drama with a clear ⊝—and doing so extremely
quickly.
Be careful, though, to structure the workshop so that you, not the actors,
control it. actors are trained to think in terms of one character, not many
characters and many plotlines. If not controlled by a director, in their enthu-
siasm they may rapidly (and quite inadvertently) pull the workshop off
course. It’s a good idea to follow Mike leigh’s practice of assembling a proper
script for the film out of the final workshopped version of each ⊕. It’s less
expensive than making the actors improvise to camera, and less risky.
Checklist for writing a tandem ⊚
1 Your mottos are: ‘same ⊙, different adventures’ and ‘connected
stories’.
2 Before writing or even planning, clarify to yourself your film’s
message and themes; that is, what your film is ‘about’ ideas-
wise. all of your stories must illustrate the same ⊙. don’t let
characters and passionately felt ideas drag you into writing before
you have planned. They may pull you in the wrong direction.
3 consciously work against predictability. Insert twists and turns
and rays of hope (which you may or may not quash) and assume a
hostile audience because then you will put your arguments more
carefully and convincingly. remember that film reaches audiences
first emotionally then intellectually. set out to touch their emotions.
Take them on a journey of the soul. consider using fractured
tandem, which is discussed later in the book. It’s difficult but may
be your best way to remove predictability.
202 The 21st-Century Screenplay
4 seriously consider the pros and cons of a macro for your particular
film.Your idea may or may not come with a built-in macro. The
macro has to be a proper ⊗ that illustrates the ⊙ and
connects and includes all of your stories. Including a macro is
probably the safest way to ensure pace and connection. plan your
macro, then peg your other stories to the macro’s timeline of events,
always remembering to factor in suspense and twists. Your macro
will usually involve crime and death and often a ticking clock.
5 Think about whether you want to use closely plotted three-act
stories throughout the film, like Traffic, a mixture of one-, two- and
three-act stories like City of Hope (see pp. 203–6), or whether, like
Lantana, your macro is strong enough to hold together, and give
meaning to, less structured stories. This will probably mean you
need to include death or the threat of death or violence in your
macro. Three-act stories with twists and turns are probably the
most reliable structures to ensure pace and suspense. If your stories
are not closely plotted three-act structures, copy City of Hope’s
trick of ⊥ on first or second-act turning point (see pp. 205–6),
or use Lantana’s technique of making sure that they are full of
emotion and surprises, with each character having a lot to lose.
6 consider truncating stories, but make sure they will transmit what
you intend them to in a truncated form.
7 pick characters that are typical but vividly interesting members
of the group you want to depict, not stereotypes. Think real but
unusual. ask yourself why a great actor would want to play your
character.
8 devise and carefully plan each separate story as a strikingly original
and powerful variation on the film’s ⊙. Keep the stories tight.
You do not have enough screen time to meander.
9 create connections as explained above. connections can be made
at the last moment, but if you leave it this late, the connections
must be extremely clever.
10 plan how you will interweave stories before you start.
203
Chapter 26
City of hope: Tandem ⊚
case study
JOhN saYles’ FIlM CITY of Hope, while suffering somewhat from the
perennial problem of political tandem ⊚ films, predictability, is very
useful in providing examples of how to run many interconnected plots in a
tandem ⊚. It uses many of the connecting devices listed above and
employs a combination of very tightly plotted three-act stories and plots that
are cleverly truncated at turning points.
Its ⊙ is political corruption and the battle to maintain moral integ-
rity, and it spans an entire inner-city community from the mayor through to
police on the ⊜ down to children on the street. It is told through a web of
interconnected stories all set in the same small physical area. all the stories
in some way touch on people exploiting either the system or their official
position for personal benefit, so all are on topic, on ⊙.
City of Hope uses all of the standard tandem ⊚ devices for achieving
pace, connection, meaning and closure. Its stories are on the same socio-
political ⊙ (inner-city corruption, with all of the stories exploring and
⊥ in corruption, or in disaster caused by corruption or greed); it has a
macro that illustrates the ⊙ (corrupt officials trying to destroy a ghetto
in order to build an upmarket shopping mall); it utilises geographical con-
nections (all of the characters live and work in such close physical proximity
that they can credibly walk in and out of each other’s stories); characters
appear in more than one story; and finally, facilitating characters provide
useful backstory information about other characters.
The most interesting facilitating character is the mentally impaired man
who, acting as a sort of chorus on the action, wanders through the stories,
stitching them together and, at the end, is used not only to foil attempts to get
help for a dying man, but to state the film’s moral with his repeated symbolic
howls: ‘We need help.’ The appearance of this apparently unimportant—
indeed, in society’s eyes, redundant—character as the ⊞ of truth provides
another pleasing unity, another tying up of loose ends. closure is further
reinforced by ⊥ the film on the building site where it started.
203
204 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Story structure and content
The three dominant stories are each structured in three acts and all have the
corrupt mayor and/or his agents as major or subsidiary antagonists. each
provides a different example of the ⊙ of corruption and shows a differ-
ent ⊛’s attempts to retain integrity and independence in the face
of corruption and abuse of power. In the minor narratives, the story always
involves the issue of individuals manipulating the system (or their power
within the system) for personal gain. This even applies to the story of the
two teenagers who lie to avoid a police charge and to the love story involving
Nicky and angela, which is brought to an abrupt end by a policeman who,
abusing his power, fatally shoots Nicky.
STory 1: nICky and hIS BuIlder faTher Joe
Nicky, an overprotected and aimless young man, leaves his cushy job on his
father’s building site to find independence (disturbance). This leads him to
an abortive robbery attempt which has officialdom after him (first-act turn-
ing point) and eventually to his fatal shooting at the hands of the ex-husband
of a girl with whom he falls in love at first sight. In a final ⊕ which incor-
porates both second-act turning point (his lowest point) and ⊝, he is
reunited with his father as he dies.
STory 2: Joe and The CorruPT CITy offICIalS
Joe, forced to pay off corrupt city and union officials in order to continue
business, tries to maintain his integrity and protect his family. he is under
pressure to burn down one of his properties, a rundown apartment build-
ing, so that a new ⊧ can replace it (disturbance). he resists, but
finally agrees in exchange for the police dropping the attempted robbery
charges against Nicky (first-act turning point). To his horror, two die in the
fire and many are left homeless (second-act turning point). later, he finds
Nicky dying. They are reconciled, ⊮ is too late to save Nicky and he dies
(⊝).
STory 3: Wynn TryInG To aVoId CorruPTIon
Wynn, the lone african–american councillor on a conservative and corrupt
city council, has to deal with the council on one hand and with militant black
community members (who despise him and try to destroy his credibility at
every turn) on the other. When two black youths ⊜ up a white teacher,
then lie that he propositioned them (disturbance), Wynn has to choose
between exposing the lie and keeping the black community onside (first-act
City of hope: Tandem ⊚ case study 205
turning point). The pressure mounts on Wynn, and it seems he will have to
lie and support the boys (second-act turning point). In the end, he persuades
the teacher to drop the charges and unites the community against the corrupt
mayor (⊝).
one-act stories
There are three one-act stories (all ⊥ on a first-act turning point, a
thought-provoking surprise).
1. nICky fallS In loVe WITh anGela rIzzo
Nicky meets angela rizzo on the day of the robbery (disturbance) and last
sees her at the story’s first-act turning point, when they have sex and talk
about commitment, a big issue for Nicky since angela has a handicapped
child. a three-act structure would go on to explore how irresponsible Nicky
copes with an instant and demanding family. Instead, the story stops at the
thought-provoking surprise. Notice how there is no sense of frustration
when the story stops like this, no sense of being left in mid air. It’s because we
are left with the reward of a thought-provoking surprise. We can see the same
thing in The Sweet Hereafter.
2. mIke rIzzo murderS nICky
Mike, already angry that angela has left him, notices Nicky talking to her on
the night the two meet (disturbance). he threatens Nicky, then later when
drunk, shoots him (first-act turning point), thereby possibly incurring a
murder charge and putting his partner, Bill, who hates corruption, into the
very difficult position of either lying to protect him or being honest and see-
ing him arrested (‘Will they get found out? Will the good cop lie?’).
3. nICky and The unSuCCeSSful roBBery
Two minor criminals rope Nicky in to help them rob the electrical store (dis-
turbance). They are discovered by a security guard and arrested (first-act
turning point). again, the story stops here. There is further material about
Nicky, because his father seeks to protect him, ⊮ is the last time we see
the other two robbers.
Two-act structures
There are two stories ⊥ at their second-act turning point, hence in
tragedy.
206 The 21st-Century Screenplay
1. a Good TeenaGer BeComeS CorruPTed
desmond, a decent teenager, is hanging out with a delinquent friend. Irri-
tated by police harassment, the delinquent suggests deliberately assaulting an
innocent jogger, Wes (disturbance), which they do. To get out of the assault
charge, they claim Wes propositioned them (first-act turning point). The
black community is horrified. community outrage spirals. The press comes
in and a community meeting is called. On the way to the meeting, desmond’s
mother suspects something is wrong and asks desmond directly whether he
lied (second-act turning point). The story stops here, just as it seems des-
mond is going to confess. It is not made clear whether or not he does. The
next time the matter is revisited is at the community meeting, where Wynn
announces he has got the charges dropped. There is a sort of epilogue where
desmond seeks out and apologises to Wes, and it seems there is some sort
of reconciliation. But desmond has been corrupted—and that is the point of
this small tragedy.
2. WeS IS deSTroyed
Wes is assaulted (disturbance), hears that the boys are claiming sexual assault
(first-act turning point), and is told by Wynn that his reputation will be dam-
aged regardless of whether he drops the charges or maintains them, but that
there will be less damage if they are dropped (second-act turning point). he
is not seen after this. his life, tragically, is ruined. Wynn provides the infor-
mation that he has dropped the case.
Skeletal three-act macro ⊗
alongside all of these stories runs the macro, the story of how the corrupt
mayor and his officials manage to get a major ⊧ on track. It dram-
atises the ⊙ of corruption in high places. Notice that it is skeletal. This
does not matter. It is there to provide connection and point to the ⊙. The
characters concerned are the mayor, his assistant pauley (Joe’s brother), a
corrupt lawyer from the district attorney’s office, and an ambitious detective,
O’Brien. It consists of a disturbance (the ⊧), followed by a first-
act turning point (the news that investors will back out if building does not
commence immediately), a ⊪ showing their attempts to force Joe to
burn the building down and, as third act and ⊝, how they discover and
use Nicky’s criminal act to force Joe to do their bidding.
207
Section 2
multiple ⊛
⊚
Chapter 27
multiple ⊛ ⊚:
an introduction
MUlTIple ⊛ FIlMs are about the ‘adventure’ of a group
and the heat of the idea is the actions and personal relationships of this group.
If your film idea or a film you want to use as a model concerns a group of
people (for example, a troubled family, any kind of team, a group of students,
inhabitants of a town), all of whom are involved in the same ‘adventure’ with
the group’s survival under threat, what you are looking at is probably not a
single-hero story, but a story about multiple protagonists. Your motto here is:
‘same team, same adventure’.
Multiple ⊛ films are very popular all over the world because
they provide a means to look at group mentality and group interaction—
individuals under pressure from society—something that conventional ‘one
hero/one journey’ does not address. examples include The Full Monty, Little
Miss Sunshine, American Beauty, Revolutionary Road, The Magnificent Seven,
Gosford Park, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, The Jane Austen Book Club,
Ordinary People, Chicken Run, The Big Chill and Saving Private Ryan.
When multiple ⊛ scripts fail
Tragically, multiple ⊛ scripts routinely fail and are abandoned.
This is a very serious problem, as many cultures are extremely interested in
207
208 The 21st-Century Screenplay
external social pressures on individuals and small groups, equally if not more
so than in individual spiritual quests.
I think there are two reasons why scripts and films like these fail. The first
is that the scripts lack an action line and consist of characters in search of a
⊗, probably a result of the misunderstanding I pointed out earlier, whereby
people believe there is a particular sort of film known as the ‘character- driven’
film that can operate successfully without a ⊗. as successful multiple
⊛ stories are often described as character-driven it’s easy for film-
makers to feel that an interesting group of characters will per se make a film.
however, as we’ve seen, character-driven means the very opposite of ‘no ⊗’.
It means ‘character displayed through a characteristic story’ and, while suc-
cessful multiple ⊛ films do have very interesting characters, far
from having no ⊗, they are very intricately plotted and involve a mesh of
interwoven action and relationship line strands in almost every ⊕.
The second reason that these scripts fail is because the received wisdom
is that every script must be about a single ⊛ on a journey into self-
knowledge. a character from the group is therefore selected as the single hero
and, while the group’s fascinating activities and interaction (the real heat of
the film) get pushed into the background, centre stage is given over to a tired
spiritual fulfilment journey involving this individual with, usually, an equally
clichéd romance. The reason the ⊗ material is tired is because nobody
involved with the film—writer, director or producer—is really interested in
it. It’s there solely because it’s thought to be compulsory. For an extensive
study of films that are inherently group stories but are either characters in
search of a ⊗ or are structured as single-hero stories, see pp. 421–33.
Is my film a multiple ⊛ film?
The heat of a multiple ⊛ film—its point—is the interaction of the
group, and to service that heat you need to provide ⊗ material that not
only follows the group in its group adventure, but also depicts the individual
journeys of each character, and the characters’ interactions. If you don’t, your
film is likely to go round in circles.
You can pick whether your material is a multiple ⊛ story by ask-
ing whether what excites you about it is not one individual or a relationship
between two people, but one of the following:
1 a group of people
2 how an individual is limited or in some way affected by a group
3 how an individual affects a group
multiple ⊛ ⊚: an introduction 209
Several versions of the same ⊛
The most useful way to understand how to construct multiple ⊛
scripts is to think of the group as being versions of the same ⊛.
Take The Full Monty. We follow different versions of ‘the unemployed
man from the North of england preparing to perform in a striptease show’.
In The Big Chill we follow different versions of ‘the radical student ten years
on faced with the suicide of a charismatic leader’. In Monsoon Wedding, the
group is ‘people connected by a big wedding’. In The Jane Austen Book Club,
all of the women are modern versions of Jane austen heroines, and all are in
a book club.
This is why there is no sense of dislocation or of ‘being in a different film’
when the ⊗ switches from one group member to another (as there would
be in a conventional one-hero film)—because the whole point of a multiple
⊛ film is to observe members of a group. This is why in The Full
Monty it feels perfectly natural for the action often to leave gaz (the char-
acter who first had the idea of a male striptease show) to follow the story of
other group members—such as the overweight man who is worried about
showing his naked body, or the ex-manager who cannot tell his wife that he
has been sacked. and not only does it feel quite natural to follow each char-
acter, it makes the film because what the film is ‘about’ is a group of men, not
just gaz. some of the protagonists in the film will be more prominent than
others.
The team on a group journey or adventure
Multiple ⊛ structure is about several people travelling the same
journey, with the story passed from one ⊛ to the next, like a relay
race, and each character showing a different response to the quest, siege or
reunion adventure. In a normal three-act single-hero structure, changing
protagonists several times would be disastrous. But there is no disjunction
in multiple ⊛ films when a different ⊛ takes over the
story because the new one is just a different version of the one we’ve just
been following. each is reacting in a different way to the same crisis and the
same choices, which is exactly what an audience comes to a group film to
see. approaching your film as a multiple ⊛ story will stop you from
creating a group of characters in search of a ⊗. The spark of your film—its
heat—is the group, so you must create plots and relationship-line material
that will properly display your group.
210 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Quests, reunions and sieges
Very conveniently, successful multiple ⊛ films always seem to have
the same ⊗ material. They seem always to be about a group quest, a group
reunion or a group siege (which includes emotional or psychological sieges,
as in people trapped in families or social roles). This is probably because
quests, reunions and sieges are ideal subject matter to explore a group since
they throw the group together in close physical proximity and send it on
an adventure under danger and stress with a lot to lose. all of these ele-
ments provide great scope for character exploration and interaction and, in
⊗-terms, suspenseful build to a ⊝. Often, the categories overlap; for
example, Little Miss Sunshine and Chicken Run both mix a quest with a siege.
a siege becomes a quest when all of the characters escape their prison. simi-
larly, if characters in a quest get trapped in any kind of prison, their quest will
turn into a siege.
all varieties include one character who causes the quest, siege or reunion,
a character we can call ‘the instigator’ (in Scriptwriting Updated I called this
character ‘the dominant character’, but instigator is more descriptive), and
which we’ll look at in detail below.
The quest, siege or reunion will be the main action line—the group action
line, the adventure—of the film. If your material sounds like any of the topics
below, you are probably writing a multiple ⊛ film. social minori-
ties are automatically in a siege situation with regard to the majority, and
many multiple ⊛ films in all categories feature social minorities
(for example women, teenagers, ethnic groups). Because of this, there will
be an added layer to the quest, mission or siege, because each member rep-
resents a different minority response. In cases like these, you might find you
prefer to use tandem or fractured tandem ⊚.
QueSTS
Quest films are about groups forced into a quest to survive and prevail. They
join together to achieve a common goal. Often they start out as a team, if not,
they soon become one. The instigator is usually the person who caused the
quest, or leads it. Typical story topics with examples are:
one laST JoB
a group of ex-colleagues reunite to perform one last enterprise, often crimi-
nal (Ocean’s Eleven (and its sequels), Space Cowboys, Crouching Tiger, Hidden
Dragon, Sleepers).
multiple ⊛ ⊚: an introduction 211
SoldIerS on a near-ImPoSSIBle QueST
a group of soldiers or quasi-soldiers attempts a very dangerous quest. Many
war stories are group stories, with each soldier being a different version of
‘the soldier’. The instigator will usually be the leader (Saving Private Ryan,
Dirty Dozen, The Magnificent Seven, Stand by Me, Galaxy Quest (which is
also a reunion film), Deliverance, Space Cowboys).
The CInderella SPorTS Team
a struggling sports team enters a competition and triumphs, sometimes
actually but always morally. The instigator is often a fairy godmother fig-
ure, someone new who comes into the group and leads the quest (Mystery,
Alaska, As It Is in Heaven, The Mighty Ducks, Brassed Off, A League of Their
Own, Any Given Sunday).
‘leT’S PuT on a ShoW’
This overlaps with the cinderella team idea. a group of people, often ama-
teurs, decides to put on a play or perform for the public. The instigator will
be the person who suggests the show. The group sometimes wins literally
but always wins morally (The Full Monty, The Commitments, Cosi, Little Miss
Sunshine (which is also a version of ‘soldiers on a near-impossible quest’),
Calendar Girls).
GrouP JourneyS
a group on a journey of any kind—a group prison break, group holiday, group
expedition etc. (The Great Escape, The Hangover, City Slickers).
reunIonS
reunions are the hardest form, because of their potential to be static. The
instigator is usually the person who initiates the reunion (it may even be the
corpse), or makes trouble at the reunion. Typical story topics are:
WeddInGS, funeralS, famIly (or de faCTo famIly) rITualS
This involves people assembling before or after a wedding or funeral (The Big
Chill, Death at a Funeral, Invasion of the Barbarians, Radiance, Cat on a Hot
Tin Roof, After the Wedding, Monsoon Wedding, Steel Magnolias).
The CluB/WorkmaTeS/The ClaSS
This story material is about a group of people that meets regularly, either
because they work together, or because they are friends, or because they share
212 The 21st-Century Screenplay
similar interests. examples include: The Jane Austen Book Club, Love! Valor!
Compassion!, The Dinner Guest. however, note The Joy Luck Club, which is in
consecutive stories form.
SeekInG ouT The famIly
In this, a prodigal returns, or an upright person seeks out a disreputable fam-
ily member and their friends. examples are: You Can Count on Me (which
is also a family siege film), All about My Mother. If the action stays for the
vast majority of the time with one character, the film is probably a one-hero
structure.
SIeGe fIlmS
sieges involve a group in some way trapped together and trying to break
out—either literally, as in a prison, emotionally, as in a family, or socially,
as in a social class, ethnic or gender minority, or a community. In social
sieges (such as American Beauty and Revolutionary Road), the instigator will
be challenging the status quo. In actual physical sieges (prisons or quasi-
prisons) the instigator will be the person leading the escape attempt. Typical
story content is:
TrouBled famIlIeS (The emoTIonal SIeGe)
In this, family members are emotionally (and sometimes physically) impris-
oned with each other. To be a multiple ⊛ story, the story must be
about the whole family’s interaction, following all or several members, not
just one or two. examples of family sieges are: To Live, Ordinary People, Little
Miss Sunshine and American Beauty.
PrISonS
Inmates of a prison either find creative ways to cope with incarceration or
try to escape. examples are: The Great Escape, Chicken Run, Paradise Road,
Paradise Grove and Cocoon.
SaVe our ToWn!
Members of a small community encounter a force for change (either from
within or from the world outside) and either fear their way of life is under
threat or see an opportunity for the town to benefit. examples are: Waking
Ned Devine, The Swamp Dwellers.
subgroups use the following storylines:
•
Townsfolk feel threatened by an outsider who turns out to be a
multiple ⊛ ⊚: an introduction 213
mentor ⊣, a teacher figure who shows them how to be
better people (for example, Chocolat, As It Is in Heaven, Italian for
Beginners).
•
Townsfolk convert and save the person who came to destroy them (as
in Local Hero).
•
Townsfolk close ranks against one or more individuals who are trying
to break the rules (for example, American Beauty, Revolutionary
Road, Mystic River).
ComIC heIST, kIdnaP
Bungling criminals attempting to commit a crime draw together a group of
allies and opponents, who often have never met before (for example, Burn
After Reading, Ruthless People).
not all quests, sieges and reunions are multiple
⊛ films
Not all stories about groups or people in siege situations (including unhappy
families) are multiple ⊛ stories. Many are normal three-⊬-
hero structures (as in The Counterfeiters and Cadillac Man), or (as in The
Shawshank Redemption and Clubland aka Introducing the Dwights), mentor
⊣ stories. again, many disaster movies are simply a vehicle for one
saviour figure. essentially, if the film stays primarily with the point of view
of one character, it’s a single-hero film. The test is, if you can remove the
individual stories of group members (leaving only the story of the central
character) and still have a story (albeit diminished), it’s a single-hero. Four
Weddings could work with just charlie’s story because his friends’ stories
occur only when charlie is present and is the primary focus. however, if you
remove the team of strippers from The Full Monty, you don’t have a film. You
need to know this so you know what (and what not) to ⊗.
Survival macro: ‘Will the group survive?’
When we were looking at tandem ⊚ I introduced the idea of the
macro, an overarching ⊗ that shows the film’s ⊙ in action and holds
all of the stories together. Multiple ⊛ films also have a macro but
it is always on the same ⊙; namely, the survival of the group. even in
gentle versions, there is always a threat to the group, and this threat causes
the group adventure, often even the formation of the group. The macro is
always centred on the question ‘Will the group survive?’ More precisely,
‘Will the group emerge from the quest, siege or reunion intact, changed or
214 The 21st-Century Screenplay
destroyed?.’ In gentler films, the destruction or break-up of the group may not
be of major concern to group members, but in serious films it can literally be
a matter of life and death.
In quests, often an actual physical threat to life is involved (as in Saving
Private Ryan, The Magnificent Seven etc.). In sieges, the threat is sometimes to
physical survival (as in Chicken Run), sometimes to emotional survival (Ordi-
nary People) or sometimes to both (American Beauty). In reunion forms, the
question is whether the group will survive the reunion emotionally, or whether
it will split up. The issue of survival in reunions can come about in three ways.
sometimes the reunion has been caused by the death or imminent death of a
key member (as in The Big Chill, Radiance, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, or, in comic
form, Death at a Funeral) and the question is whether the group will survive
the loss of this member. sometimes an external threat has caused the group to
meet or form (for example, the group of gay men in Love! Valor! Compassion!
meet because of the external threat of aIds, and the club in The Jane Austen
Book Club comes together out of one character’s desire to help others in emo-
tional crisis). Finally, the threat can appear at the start of the reunion, as in
Monsoon Wedding, where suddenly the bride-to-be is having second thoughts.
I’ve said that reunion films are the hardest multiple ⊛ films to
write. It’s because they do not arrive with any suggestion of ⊗ (there is no
quest to pursue or prison to break out of). as we’ll see, the difference between
strong and weak reunion films is that good reunion films have a ⊗ about a
threat to the group and bad versions don’t. Weak reunion films are characters
in search of a ⊗, and the missing ⊗ is a macro about group survival in the
face of a threat to the group. We’ll come back to this later.
The macro and death
I mentioned that group reunions are often triggered by death or the threat
of it. significantly, almost all multiple ⊛ films, even gentle versions
like Little Miss Sunshine and The Jane Austen Book Club and comic treat-
ments like Death at a Funeral, The Hangover and the black gangster comedy
In Bruges, involve or touch on death. death often starts the quest, reunion
or siege story, lifting the stakes and frequently being the crucial factor in
the film’s rising suspense and ⊝. Multiple ⊛ films in which
death arrives very late typically meander before its arrival (as do Topsy-Turvy
and Parallel Lives). sometimes the group will reinvent itself and survive in
a life-affirming way after a death, as in The Big Chill. sometimes the group
will be destroyed (American Beauty and Ordinary People). alternatively, the
group may triumph even though its members suffer and some die, as in The
multiple ⊛ ⊚: an introduction 215
Magnificent Seven, Saving Private Ryan, Little Miss Sunshine and, bleakly,
Revolutionary Road.
roles and masks
The InSTIGaTor
as I’ve outlined above, multiple ⊛ films always have an instigator
character like gaz in The Full Monty, lester in American Beauty or little Olive
in Little Miss Sunshine; someone who creates the group’s task or problem, or
is in charge of it, leading its members on their adventure. Instigators cause
writers a lot of confusion because it’s easy to mistake them for sole protago-
nists who need a journey to spiritual growth. hence, writers often produce
plots that take the instigator away from the group into a separate adventure,
which forces the film’s heat—the group—to the margins of the story.
some other examples of instigators are: captain John h. Miller in Saving
Private Ryan; ginger in Chicken Run; the conductor daniel daréus in As
It Is in Heaven; Jen, the young woman warrior in Crouching Tiger, Hidden
Dragon; alex, the suicide in The Big Chill; linda litske in Burn After Reading;
and Ned in Waking Ned Devine.
Most importantly, the instigator not only creates the adventure but in
most cases generates ⊖ within the group, often about how they are run-
ning the adventure.
In many cases the instigator is the group’s salvation, as in The Jane Austen
Book Club. In others, as in American Beauty, the instigator threatens the
group, destroys it and is crushed by it. sometimes the instigator is a new-
comer to the group, sometimes a long-term member. sometimes, as in Little
Miss Sunshine, the instigator is not a leader but someone who needs the
group’s protection and help. sometimes (in fact, quite often) the instigator
is dead as in The Big Chill, Waking Ned Devine and, hilariously, Death at a
Funeral. In Revolutionary Road, the husband, Frank Wheeler, starts out as
the instigator rejecting the status quo, gets his wife april to join him and then
returns to the group, leaving her tragically and fatally marginalised.
Just as multiple ⊛ films need a macro ⊗ about a quest, reun-
ion or siege, so they also need an instigator to lead the quest or siege; to cause
problems at a reunion and, in all three forms, to provoke ⊖, dissent
and divided loyalties. Without internal ⊖, the group can only react to
outside forces, which significantly reduces the film’s interest.
Of course, the intensity and nature of feelings towards the instigator will
vary enormously with the subject matter. everyone in American Beauty wants
to kill lester, but everyone in Little Miss Sunshine wants to protect Olive, and
216 The 21st-Century Screenplay
everyone in The Jane Austen Book Club looks to Bernadette for support. But
in all cases, the instigator provokes strong emotions. For a multiple protago-
nist film constructed as if the instigator is a single hero, with problematic
effects, see Bootmen (pp. 424–5).
The ouTSIder
The second character type that routinely appears in multiple ⊛
films is ‘the outsider’. The outsider is a character who exists alongside the
group but is not part of it. Outsiders are useful because they can articulate the
group’s rules and taboos and cause ⊖ either by challenging the group,
trying to change it, or by seeking membership. In The Jane Austen Book Club,
the outsider is grigg, the sole man in the group. In The Big Chill, the outsider
is the apparently fatuous young woman who was the dead man’s lover. In The
Magnificent Seven it is the young Mexican villager chico, who wants to be a
hired gun and is permitted to join the seven, but in the end leaves for love
and a normal life in the village. American Beauty has ricky Fitts as its out-
sider and Revolutionary Road has the ex-mathematician psychiatric patient,
John givings. In Ordinary People the outsider is the psychiatrist, and in Little
Miss Sunshine it is the depressed academic.
The outsider is another figure who can be mistaken for a single protago-
nist, as in 28 Days and The Oyster Farmer (see pp. 423–4, 426–7).
The TraITor WIThIn
The traitor within is an even stronger force for ⊖ and suspense than
the outsider. The traitor within is a group member who disagrees with the
instigator, and tries to sabotage, discredit, overthrow or even kill them. Mul-
tiple ⊛ stories about wars or gangsters will always have a traitor
within trying to sabotage the leader. In American Beauty the traitor within
is Frank Fitts. In Ordinary People, it is the mother. In Little Miss Sunshine it
is the sulky son, and in Galaxy Quest it is alexander dane, the acidic, one-
time shakespearean actor. In Revolutionary Road, Frank Wheeler eventually
becomes the traitor within.
The traitor within is also sometimes mistaken for a single hero, as in Mo’
Better Blues (see pp. 425–6).
Characters can swap roles
Fascinatingly, characters in multiple ⊛ films can take it in turns to
play the role of traitor within and outsider—to great effect. For example, in
the The Full Monty, sometimes gaz’s little son is the outsider. at other times
multiple ⊛ ⊚: an introduction 217
the outsider is gerald the ex-manager, but sometimes gerald is the traitor
within. sometimes dave, the chubby man who is too shy to perform is the
traitor within. right at the end of the film, gaz himself is the traitor within—
when he won’t go on stage and his young son has to persuade him to go.
In multiple ⊛ films with small casts, the cast will routinely swap
these roles. This happens in You Can Count on Me, in which the multiple
protagonists are a brother and sister orphaned as children trying to over-
come their respective responses to the trauma; the sister being someone who
always wants to please, while the brother is a weak, self-doubting wanderer.
The same role-swapping happens in In Bruges.
multiple antagonists
strictly speaking, we should speak about ‘multiple protagonists/antagonists
form’ because many group films are actually about a group of charismatic
mentor antagonists who save or influence a young or helpless ⊛
in what are really coming-of-age films; for example, Tea with Mussolini, The
Magnificent Seven and Saving Private Ryan.
another kind of multiple mentor ⊣ film is the Local Hero model,
where an outsider learns from a group which he or she joins (in which case
members of the group are mentor antagonists). The reverse of this is the As It
Is in Heaven model, seen also in The Dead Poet’s Society, where an outsider is
the mentor ⊣ who transforms the group of protagonists.
Most of what I say about the structure of multiple ⊛ films
applies equally well to multiple ⊣ films. The important thing with
these stories, as with all group stories, is that the ⊗ you use must provide
sufficient opportunities to properly explore the personalities and interaction
of the group, and many story strands dealing with group interaction need to
be carefully interwoven into the fabric of the film. Multiple ⊣ films
always revisit the ⊛ at the end of the film, even if it is only momen-
tarily, to provide closure. The final appearance of the ⊛ can provide
a good final twist, as in the bookend scenes in Saving Private Ryan.
Chapter 28
multiple protagonists: Preliminary
plotting
creaTINg a MUlTIple ⊛ film is like driving a team of
dogs or horses: each team member has its own mind but you must keep them
running simultaneously, at the same pace and towards the same goal.
Your writing problem is that multiple ⊛ films require you take
not just one ⊛ on an adventure, but about six, all of whom must
be explained and taken on their individual emotional journeys (as well as
on the group adventure) in the screen time of a conventional one-hero film.
The only way to include all of these story strands is to interweave several
within individual scenes, making almost every ⊕ transmit more than
one storyline. This means you have to choose your scenes extremely care-
fully, with a view to how much you can pack into them, how many story
strands you can take forward simultaneously. every ⊕ must earn its
keep.
The five story strands you have to plan
separately then interweave
let’s look at the five kinds of story strands you have to understand, create and
interweave—adding up to a vast number.
There are two main sorts of story in multiple ⊛ films. There is
what happened, is happening and will happen to the group, and there is what
happened, is happening and will happen to each individual. let’s look at them
in The Jane Austen Book Club. The five kinds of storylines are:
1. The GrouP adVenTure (aCTIon lIne) In The PreSenT
This is a quest, siege or reunion involving a threat to the group which forms
the group ‘adventure’. This adventure (the macro) is the vital connecting ele-
ment and it is a fully developed (if sometimes skeletal) three-act action line.
In The Jane Austen Book Club, a group of people form a book club at the
instigation of Bernadette.
218
multiple protagonists: Preliminary plotting 219
2. The GrouP adVenTure (aCTIon lIne) In The PaST
In multiple ⊛ films, this is the group’s activities—its action line—in
the past (for example, what a gang of thieves did together in the past). In
films where the group has no shared past this can be minimal, but where it
does it can be extensive and very important. It is particularly important in
reunion films, which are all about unfinished business. The group in The Jane
Austen Book Club was never a book club in the past, so there is no proper
past group adventure (although there is a lot of emotional baggage from the
past).
3. eaCh ⊛’S aCTIon lIne In The GrouP
adVenTure
This is how each ⊛ is physically affected by the group adventure,
and what they do within it. If you have six protagonists, you will have six of
these. sometimes they will be little three-act structures, other times they will
be one-act structures. In The Jane Austen Book Club, it is how each mem-
ber reacts to the challenge of providing notes on their book, and how each
behaves at group meetings.
4. The relaTIonShIP lIneS In The PaST
This is how each character interacted with the others in the past. If you have
six protagonists who knew each other in the past you must include ⊗ mat-
erial for each ⊛’s interactions with the other five. In The Jane Austen
Book Club, the past relationships between Bernadette, slyvia and Jocelyn are
very important to the story. The desire of Bernadette and Jocelyn to help syl-
via is central to the formation and continuation of the club.
5. The relaTIonShIP lIneS In The PreSenT
These show the emotional stresses of each individual in the present. addi-
tionally, if relevant, they will show how unfinished business from the past
impacts on the present. In The Jane Austen Book Club, these stories in the
present are very important. They are particularly highly developed for prudie,
sylvia and Jocelyn, less so for allegra and grigg, and almost non-existent for
Bernadette. Jocelyn’s story is very much about how the past has created her
and how she has to shed it. each story also depicts how each woman is a dif-
ferent Jane austen heroine.
simple arithmetic tells you just how much backstory and exposition you have
to get into these films. We will look at how exactly you can plan and handle
218
220 The 21st-Century Screenplay
this story material below. The point to remember here is that good charac-
ter exploration will not happen just because your characters are interesting.
You must create and cleverly insert situations that depict character through
action and provide opportunities to visit any unfinished emotional business.
But perhaps it’s tandem ⊚?
how do you know your idea isn’t best served by tandem ⊚, which also
deals with groups? Why do I say that Lantana is a tandem ⊚ film and
American Beauty is a multiple ⊛ film? aren’t all of the protagonists
in Lantana versions of the same ⊛? aren’t both films social sieges?
and does it matter?
It may. The distinction is not academic. There are significant differences in
⊙ and message, and as a result of that, in story material, hence structure.
Message-wise, tandem ⊚ is interested in the group for what it tells us
about society, whereas multiple ⊛ form is interested in the group
for what it tells us about individuals in a group situation. More precisely, tan-
dem is about a group defined by society, a group that is interesting because of
the diversity of its members. In contrast, multiple ⊛ form is about
the interaction of a closely knit group on an adventure and under threat.
These differences can be seen in the ⊗ material of each form.
In tandem:
•
The group is a social grouping (for example, people living in or
visiting Nashville, people linked by a murder investigation, people
linked by drugs).
•
One or two group members might know each other, or get to know
each other during the story, but rarely does the whole group know
each other.
•
There is no group quest, siege or reunion.
•
Members always or mostly have their adventures away from the
group with characters who are not part of the group.
In multiple ⊛ form:
•
Members are involved in a group quest, reunion or siege.
•
group members all know each other (either from the start, or as they
band together on their group adventure).
•
The individual stories are caused by the group quest, reunion or siege
and normally, but not always, happen during dealings with other
group members.
•
One member will be causing the others trouble, in some way
initiating or furthering the adventure.
multiple protagonists: Preliminary plotting 221
•
There will be a character or characters acting as the outsider and the
traitor within (sometimes these roles will be played in turn by various
characters, and sometimes there will be duplicates).
•
⊖ between group members during the adventure is central to
the film’s interest.
We can see the difference by thinking about Nashville. as the film stands, it
is a tandem ⊚ about the diverse inhabitants of Nashville. If all of the
inhabitants of Nashville started on a group quest, or were thrown together
in a siege, or had a reunion, it would be multiple ⊛ form and you
would need to explore their interaction.
Big casts are best served by tandem
as we’ve seen discussing tandem ⊚, multiple ⊛ films can
only handle five or six characters because the form requires each character to
take the limelight alone for a significant amount of time. In contrast, tandem
permits several characters to be explored within each story, which means
they can successfully handle huge casts.
Chapter 29
multiple protagonists: Plotting the
group action line
IN MUlTIple ⊛ FOrM the group story, the macro—the
quest, siege, or reunion adventure—is your lifeline because it holds everything
together, giving your characters action towards a goal. like all action lines, it
is a chronological ⊟ of events, hence it has a timeline and can there-
fore form the spine of your film, giving you clues as to where to locate steps
in the relationship storylines. so start your planning with it. as you go, you
will be using all of the charts, diagrams, ⊚ sentences and basic smiley/
Thompson plans discussed earlier in the context of conventional ⊚.
Work out your threat
The group story, the macro, depends on a threat to the group’s survival.
Once the survival threat is decided, the steps in the group’s action line can be
devised by thinking:
1 what situations could credibly happen, and
2 what each group member would do in response. each individual
needs a story in which they are seen to react in their individual way
to the group threat.
Sketch out your three-act structure
start by sketching out a three-act structure plan for the quest, siege or reun-
ion, as if you were planning a conventional one-hero model but, for the
moment, imagine the group as one ⊛ (this is because each member
will be engaged on the same action towards the same goal—they will just
feel and behave differently about it). essentially, whether it is a quest, siege
or reunion, your group will be faced with a threat; they will make a plan,
try to implement that plan, have problems and finally succeed or fail. start
by listing, in just a few words, the threat, plan, implementation of that plan,
problems and success or failure.
reunions, except those such as weddings and funerals that arrive with a
clear progression of events, might be a bit harder, but try at least to sketch out
222
multiple protagonists: Plotting the group action line 223
the start, the ⊦ and the end. however limited this is, it is your first line
of defence in preventing characters in search of a ⊗.
Next, try to work out the group adventure’s basic smiley/Thompson struc-
ture and simple and advanced ⊚ sentence (of course, this is just a start,
you will keep returning to this as you go). This smiley/Thompson structure
will start to lock in rising suspense and surprises, all building to ⊝.
The disturbance will usually be the arrival of the threat and the first-act
turning point will be some event or consequence that makes responding to
the threat essential. Think of this as: ‘the team decides to take action’. Your
⊝ will be an answer to the question ‘does the group survive the threat,
if so, in what form, if not, what happens?’ Your ⊡ will indicate how
the world went on after the threat ended.
Skeletal action line
Because there are so many parallel stories to tell, the group’s action line—the
macro, the adventure—often has to be skeletal. This is not to say that it has to
be trite—quite the opposite—⊮ cannot contain too many twists and turns
because there is simply not enough time, particularly if it’s an action movie.
This often skeletal ⊗ needs to be carefully planned so that what steps there
are can provide maximum potential for the ⊧ of the other stories.
This is akin to making sure every stop in a journey movie is impelling char-
acters and ⊗ forwards. I discuss the practical details of plotting the group
action line later in this chapter.
multiple ⊛ form often borrows from
other parallel ⊚ forms
For example, Saving Private Ryan, Tea with Mussolini and American Beauty
all use bookend flashback (see pp. 175, 257–9). Bookend flashbacks don’t
change the way you ⊗ a multiple ⊛ film because they can be
added to the plan after you’ve worked out the group action line.
Shouldn’t you start with the characters?
One could argue that planning should start by analysing your characters in
depth because multiple ⊛ form is all about the ⊖ within a
group of characters. however, starting with detailed character exploration
tends to push writers into creating characters in search of a ⊗, so I would
suggest that you start on the action line because then, when you do explore
your characters, it won’t be in isolation, it will be in terms of how they act and
interact in the group adventure.
222
224 The 21st-Century Screenplay
how to find a group adventure
Writers are often attracted by a group but don’t have a group adventure to
send it on. here is how you might start to find one.
Imagine you were fascinated by the comic possibilities of a remote, anti-
quated little town full of colourful characters that pride themselves on being
behind the times. You want to write a comedy about it but you don’t yet
have a main action line. You could easily make those characters start walk-
ing around and behaving in character, interacting as they bump into each
other—as many weak multiple ⊛ films do. You could go slightly
further and have someone returning to the town after many years—and
bumping into your colourful characters as they are walking around. how-
ever, in both cases, you would really have only characters in search of a ⊗.
Your characters are just being, not doing. You don’t yet have a spine to your
film, you need a group adventure.
WhaT doeS The GrouP Value and WhaT ThreaTenS IT?
To get a group adventure, you need to invent something that threatens the
group’s survival so the individuals will band together and take action. To
do that, isolate what the townspeople love and value (which will need to be
unique and interesting, because it defines the ‘new world’ we need for a good
film), then work on a real but unusual quest, reunion or siege story that threat-
ens it and, most crucially, threatens their survival as a group. This ⊗ must
let you explore precisely what is interesting and unique about your group,
which is the heat of your idea.
WhaT doeS our ToWnShIP Value?
Our township hates interference from the outside world, so what would
bring the outside world into our township? One thing would be television.
let’s choose television. The next step is to work out what the group could
do in response to the threat of TV coming to their town. The group story
will be a team mission, reunion or siege, so brainstorm what these might be,
making the coming of TV (and the group’s reaction to it) genuinely threaten
the group’s survival. do they go on the attack (a quest)? Or do they go into
defence (siege)? remember that survival can be threatened not only by exter-
nal threats but by internal disagreements, defections and the like.
Your group story exists to explore the characters, so find a story that gives
you the best chance to do that. Brainstorm what the group of townspeople
could do in the face of a newcomer with TV. Brainstorm how the group could
fight back, how their fight could go wrong, and how the group might start to
multiple protagonists: Plotting the group action line 225
fracture from inside. Brainstorm the practical problems a newcomer to town
with a TV would actually face and don’t forget to brainstorm the newcomer
him or herself. does the newcomer have to be a newcomer? could they be a
previous resident returning? The story of a township under threat from TV
is inherently a siege, but if the person with TV is a resident or a previous resi-
dent returning, it becomes an internal siege, where a member on the inside
decides to challenge the status quo (as in American Beauty or Revolutionary
Road). This is useful to know, because it will suggest a kind of ‘civil war’
dilemma and responses.
a quest might take the group to fight their battle outside of their town-
ship, as in The Castle, where a family whose home is under threat from a
planned airport ⊧ take their case to the highest court in the land.
alternatively, a reunion might be involved, where the TV issue is linked to,
say, a wedding or funeral. In the case of our township, it could be, say, a
funeral where it is revealed that an upright citizen secretly had a TV.
In all of these cases, the disturbance is the start of the threat, but in
some films the threat may come at the first-act turning point. play with
possibilities.
PoInTS To rememBer aBouT your GrouP adVenTure
•
except in comic or very gentle versions of the form, you need a
significant threat to the group. If the threat isn’t big or credible
enough (a) you won’t have inbuilt suspense and (b) your script will
probably end up slow and/or far-fetched.
•
The group action line will be the action the townspeople take, so in
this case it will be a siege or quest or both.
•
In structural terms, the start of the threat is the disturbance of the
group story.
•
Thus, in our film, the normality of the group action line is the
township before the TV arrives, and the disturbance is the arrival of
TV, which needs to be introduced by someone. This person is the one
causing the group’s problem, so is the instigator.
•
The group action line will be the steps the townspeople take to get rid
of TV.
•
The ⊝ will be whether the township stays the same, is changed
(if so, in what way) or is destroyed (if so, in what way).
•
since this is a comedy, the comic ⊝ will need to be very funny.
Your whole film will be leading to this comic ⊝, so it will take
work.
226 The 21st-Century Screenplay
•
The third-act battle that precedes the ⊝ of the film will be a
battle against TV, with the ⊝ the final battle.
•
The other plotlines about the individuals will all be about how
the newcomer with their TV affects them and their interpersonal
relationships with the group.
The ⊨ is vital: normality and disturbance
It is very easy for group stories to meander, which wastes audience goodwill.
The audience has to know as early as possible ‘whose film’ it is and, since the
answer is ‘the group’s film’, the group has to be set up early, preferably in the
⊨ moments. additionally, the audience needs to know what the film
is ‘about’, which in a multiple ⊛ film, is the group story, the macro.
so, establish the normality of each ⊛ early on and the normality
of the group (if it already exists) plus the arrival of the threat (the action-line
disturbance).You might actually open on the disturbance ⊕, implying the
normality as you go.
This is harder to do than it might seem. Because film is very fast at trans-
mitting visual information and very slow at transmitting information through
⊘, you usually need to open the film showing your many protagonists
in their normalities away from each other or where they interact as a group.
For example, if your protagonists are all members of a band, you might want
to start your film with the band rehearsing, simultaneously showing each
individual’s idiosyncrasies and the group dynamic. You might actually want
to insert the disturbance in this group meeting, before following each pro-
tagonist to their home in some interesting and original way, so the audience
can learn about their domestic normality. If you do this your audience imme-
diately knows it’s in a group film and starts enjoying the individual members.
If you try to introduce your protagonists in a neutral setting, you will need
to explain them via ⊘, which is very time-consuming and leads to the
sense of the film going nowhere. We can see the problems that result from
this in Parallel Lives, where the film opens at a college as people assemble for
a reunion, requiring each of the characters to be explained via ⊘. This
rapidly becomes boring and gets the film off to a very slow and shaky start,
taking twenty minutes to establish its many characters (too many to handle
in a multiple ⊛ film, another unfortunate misjudgment).
By contrast, successful multiple ⊛ films tend to set up their
group and group threat (the disturbance) very early on. In The Big Chill, the
disturbance of the group action line, the suicide, is cleverly set up during the
⊨ credits by each member in their normality receiving the news of
multiple protagonists: Plotting the group action line 227
alex’s death. Note, by the way, the clever exposition in the ⊨ moments
of the film. The little boy is singing the 1971 hit ‘Jeremiah was a Bullfrog’,
which he must have learnt from his parents. This not only places the parents
culturally and in a particular time but, along with the fact that the father not
the mother is bathing the child, reveals their style of parenting.
American Beauty also uses the set-up trick of ⊨ the film on the
characters’ normality, plus a shock mention of death, but in reverse, with
death introduced before the characters’ normality.
The comedy Galaxy Quest is equally brilliant in its set-up of its group
of has-been actors. The film opens with part of an episode from a discon-
tinued space-odyssey TV series in which they used to perform. It then cuts
to a shopping mall where, we discover, a fan rally is being held. It then goes
backstage to where the group of now has-been actors from the show is wait-
ing to go on, discussing the past and bickering in character, each revealing
their idio syncrasies. We realise instantly that this is our group and is ‘what
the film is about’. By the end of the ⊟, we know all about the group’s
past and its present. also, although we don’t realise it, the film’s action line
(good aliens arriving to enlist the actors’ help against bad aliens) has been
cleverly set up.
significantly, a comment quite often made about the hilarious and enor-
mously successful Burn After Reading is that it took a long while to start.
Technically, this is probably because the group threat in the comic heist/siege
⊗ is the discovery of the floppy disc containing the ex-cIa man’s memoirs,
and neither that nor the setting-up of the group itself happens until some
time into the story—not a great deal of time, but sufficient for some audience
members to ask: ‘Where is this going?’
Chapter 30
multiple protagonists: Plotting
relationship lines
as We’Ve seeN, MUlTIple ⊛ films have many relationship
lines to get across and very little time in which to do it. sometimes when
multiple ⊛ films are discussed the various story strands are referred
to as ‘subplots’. This is misleading because it suggests that the film should
constantly be going off at a tangent from the main group-threat adventure.
The opposite is true: relationship material in these films must happen because
of the group adventure—the group adventure forces the relationship material
to happen. The motto here, as in conventional ⊚, is ‘what happens in
the adventure causes what happens in the relationship strands’. This points
you towards the story mat erial you need and a place where you can insert it.
It means, for example, that specifically because of a group threat, your char-
acters will revisit old hostilities or form new alliances. and not only does the
relationship matter happen because of the group threat, it happens during
scenes involving the group adventure.
For example, you may know that during the course of your film two of
your characters need to comically explore and resolve their sibling rivalry
issues, but you don’t know where or how or why. however, once you’ve
sketched out your group action-line quest, siege or reunion you will be able
to find reasons and opportunities for your angry siblings to fight, compete
and reconcile as the group adventure is happening, and slot them in.
Imagine that your sibling-rivalry story strand occurs in a multiple pro-
tagonist prison-break story. Imagine the two rival siblings are escaping from
prison down a tunnel. The stresses of escaping down the tunnel can credibly
cause them to throw the past back at each other. That way, one ⊕ is fur-
thering the main action line (the escape) and two character lines (sibling one
and sibling two). Further, since the characters’ quarrel may well impact on
other members of your group and cause them to react in character, suddenly
your ⊕ is carrying many character story stands as well as the macro, the
group action line. also, of course, your sibling rivalry will impact on the
group adventure. For example, your siblings could be so busy having an
228
multiple protagonists: Plotting relationship lines 229
argument that they don’t hear the prison siren go off, which means the rest
of the group, still waiting to enter the tunnel, get caught. actively search for
ways like this to combine storylines.
exploring the characters
CharaCTer and STory STrandS
Multiple ⊛ films are always primarily character studies, often
stories about unfinished business, so you need to choose and know your
characters in depth so that you can create a ⊗ that contains events capa-
ble of revealing them through action. choose your characters very carefully,
making them interesting, different, and real but unusual characters. You will
have to exert great self-control not to let them run away with you and lead
you into a ⊗ that doesn’t serve your ideas. remind yourself that the heat of
your story is not the group, but the group in action pursuing a specific goal.
If you don’t get the proper action-line ⊗, your interesting characters will
rapidly become boring. From the start, link your character exploration by
thinking what kind of quest, reunion or siege they need to best display them.
Character profiles
Most multiple ⊛ stories have only about six characters because
each character needs to take centre stage for so long. create group members
who have a skill or ineptitude that will be useful in your main action line
and make sure characters have a basis for ⊖, or else your only threat
will be from the outside, which is much less interesting. The more potential
for internal ⊖ within the group, the more scope you have for charac-
ter interaction. If your characters have known each other for years, look for
unfinished business that can play a part in the present.
roleS and maSkS
You may already have a instigator in your initial idea. If not, create an origi-
nal and interesting version to initiate the task or trouble and be the focus of
loyalty, animosity, rebellion or other strong emotions. look for a similarly
interesting and original outsider and traitor within, and be aware that these
roles can be played temporarily by other characters. If your group is large,
you may have a number of different versions of the traitor within or outsider,
as happens in Love! Valor! Compassion!
Be careful not to create clichéd or predictable characters. remember that
if you signal a character’s intentions too early on it will become predictable
and stereotypical. This happens in Space Cowboys, where the traitor within
228
230 The 21st-Century Screenplay
is so obvious that all the audience can do is sit back and wait for the treach-
ery. Very useful here are those web sites on film clichés; for example, www.
moviecliches.com. read them, wince, and delete any clichés that have crept in.
To get an interesting range of characters, consider archetypes. a good
place to start is with the archetypes that christopher Vogler mentions in The
Writers’ Journey: the mentor, the shape shifter, and so on. These are all char-
acter types that might be useful.
famIlIeS and moTIVe
It’s helpful at this stage to start thinking of your group of multiple protagonists
as a family, operating in family roles; say, the parent figure, the kid brother,
the big sister, and so on. This reminds you to think of them as a group rather
than interesting unconnected eccentrics and, to add to the interest and origi-
nality, consider role reversing sometimes. Try role reversals to add interest,
so that, for example, your ‘younger brother’ character can swap roles with the
group’s father figure.
noT ‘and’ BuT ‘BeCauSe’
a good tip is to think of your film not as ‘a family of characters comes
together and . . .’, but as ‘a family of characters comes together because . . .’
This will force you to go back to the macro, which is the ‘because’, the crisis
or threat behind the quest, reunion or siege.
CharaCTer PerSPeCTIVeS
The ‘character perspectives’ approach is another way to enrich and differ-
entiate multiple protagonists. John Vorhaus describes the technique in his
interesting book The Comic Toolbox (1994) in relation to TV sitcom, ⊮
could equally apply to drama or action movies. The idea is that to create a
lively, richly comic cast, you consciously choose characters with opposing
world views, and set these against a mostly ‘normal’ character. This gives
you the opportunity to create many differing but comic responses to the
same problem, hence many reasons for ongoing comic disagreements. For
example, one character might be obsessively tidy, another might be a slob,
another might neurotically veer between the two, and the final character will
provide a normal balanced approach. These characters can be in constant
⊖—either in response to a group threat (‘our neighbour won’t take out
their garbage at the appropriate time’) or in addition to a group threat (say,
all of the characters are trying to buy their landlord a birthday present and
the issue of tidiness comes up).
multiple protagonists: Plotting relationship lines 231
WhaT The CharaCTerS ThInk of eaCh oTher and hoW
They InTeraCT
Your next step is to consider methodically how your characters view each
other and how they interact, writing a few sentences for each character. Why?
Because unless you list these interactions now you may forget to include
them. You don’t need to work out plots yet.
here are the interpersonal relationships that you need to work out
between your six protagonists (remember, this requires only a sentence or
two of description).
•
1 and 2, 1 and 3, 1 and 4, 1 and 5, 1 and 6
•
2 and 3, 2 and 4, 2 and 5, 2 and 6
•
3 and 4, 3 and 5, 3 and 6
•
4 and 5, 4 and 6
•
5 and 6
You will need story material to cover interpersonal relationships in the
present (and sometimes also the past) between all of these characters. a
lot of material about interpersonal relationships will already have crept in.
Brainstorm many possibilities and note them down, again not locking into
any. sometimes the relationship between two characters will be very brief—
something you can handle in asides in a few lines across a few scenes—at
other times it might be very dense indeed. For example, American Beauty
has a series of little three-act plots all with ‘lester causes trouble’ as a possible
title. start to pencil them in, but don’t commit.
Plotting relationship lines
It’s very easy to create relationship-line scenes that merely show characters
bickering about the past or present, which is boring. Unless this material
pays off later, it is redundant. To create a good story to illustrate the indi-
vidual’s response to the group threat, try the following:
1 Isolate aspects of the group threat that would impinge on the
relevant character, using your knowledge of each character and their
relationship with other members of the group.
2 create a well-structured story to carry this, preferably using a three-
act structure. a one-act structure will suffice as long as its turning
point is strong.
as a very large part of your film’s attraction will be about the alliances, dis-
agreements and unfinished business between characters, keep looking for
ways that the group-adventure line could permit this relationship material to
232 The 21st-Century Screenplay
happen and factor it in. peg your various relationship-story strands to what
is happening in the group adventure (the film’s main action line), and always
think in terms of scenes combining strands. The characters will behave and
comment characteristically in response to events, so choose your group
scenes carefully so they permit this to the full. arguments can easily flare up
in stressful situations and are good places to give the audience backstory, as
are introductions and characters meeting up after time apart. don’t forget
visual and sound clues.
CharaCTerISTIC CommenTS and reaCTIonS
In the case of our TV-hating township, make the individual townspeople
respond to the challenges of the group task in character, demonstrating their
relationships with the others—thus furthering the action line and many rela-
tionship strands simultaneously. For example, say the group story involves a
farce ⊕ where the townspeople are sabotaging a TV satellite dish. Make
characters 1 and 2 argue about unfinished business as they struggle to climb
a roof to get to the dish. Meanwhile, make character 3, who is on guard but
is prone to hay fever, have an attack. Meanwhile make character 4, who is
famous for her bad temper, have a quarrel with character 5 causing character
6, who is chronically inept, to stall the getaway car.
Set-up, ⊧ and payoff
a good general rule for any kind of plotting is ‘set up, develop, pay off’. so,
think of your character-interaction strands as three-step narratives, even if
you have only three tiny beats, that give you a set-up, ⊧ and pay-
off. Insert these along the spine created by your quest, reunion or siege ⊗.
Visit the strand once (to set it up) a second time (to develop it) and a third
(to pay it off).
Your ‘story’ could be as simple as a few sentences shared between two
characters in three different scenes. alternatively, it could be extensive; if so,
the ⊦ will be extended and you may have to use a number of separate
scenes. If it is a very complex ⊗, such as the love affair between carolyn
and Buddy Kane in American Beauty, the set-up and the ⊧ will
both be extended and you will have several scenes in all. But in all cases, keep
thinking ‘set-up, ⊧, payoff’.
Points of view
When all of the protagonists in your film are working against a joint exter-
nal ⊣, they will all be protagonists, as in buddy movies. But in
multiple protagonists: Plotting relationship lines 233
relationship lines, the ⊛ whose point of view you are taking will
be the ⊛—for the duration of that storyline—with the other mem-
bers of the group being antagonists. so, for example, if one of your storylines
involves character 1 being bullied by character 2, we’ll see things from the
victim’s point of view in certain scenes and in others we’ll see them from the
bully’s view. This is how lester in American Beauty can be the ⊛ in
certain storylines, but the ⊣ in several other storylines.
You need to be aware of this ⊣/⊛ switch so that you
remember whose point of view you need to have at any given moment; thus,
what content you need to include in scenes. If you don’t, you won’t get the
vital ‘different points of view’ that multiple ⊛ films need, or you will
get it in a blurred or muddied form or, worse still, your scenes will become
just characters bickering or chatting.
Index CardS
as your film start to takes shape, transfer ⊗ beats to index cards to map
out the film. Try to combine ⊗ beats, and work always to condense. do we
really need to see the secret TV viewer sneak out of choir practice twice so
as to catch the big game? Would once do? how can once be even funnier?
a writer at work
Writer/director robin swicord, who wrote the multiple ⊛ screen-
plays Little Women (adapted from louisa May alcott’s novel), Shag and The
Jane Austen Book Club (directing the latter), has some very useful insights
on constructing these films. her approach is remarkable for its precise and
extensive planning. she too sees multiple ⊛ films as the equivalent
of driving a team of wilful animals which need to progress simultaneously
towards the same destination. particularly, she stresses the difficulty of tell-
ing competing individual stories in such limited time, pointing out how little
time the film has alone with each character away from the group—therefore
how important it is to choose action that will tell the most about any given
character vividly and quickly.
her writing process involves first plotting the macro (which she calls
the umbrella ⊗), consciously giving it a three-act structure and thinking
of the group as one ⊛. hence, in The Jane Austen Book Club, she
very deliberately created a second-act turning point ⊕ in which all of the
members hit rock bottom emotionally (as the single ⊛ does in a
standard conventional ⊚) followed by a third act, in which she brings
all of the characters back from the brink to final triumph.
234 The 21st-Century Screenplay
To create the emotional journey of each character in The Jane Austen Book
Club, she plotted each progression in steps, then, using index cards, carefully
chose scenes that would depict this well but economically, working out how
many scenes she could allow each character away from the group. she con-
sciously used the group gatherings as markers for herself, working out how
much each club member’s story needed to progress between meetings.
CreaTe rISInG emoTIon ThrouGh The Way you JumP
STorIeS
particularly fascinating is the technique she uses to factor in rising emotion
when jumping between storylines (there always being a potential prob-
lem with anticlimax when you leave a story at an emotional high point to
join another). her answer here is to link the emotional level of one ⊕’s
departure point to a similar emotional level in the next ⊕’s arrival point,
sometimes jumping to a contrasting emotion to heighten the effect. she says
that this gives the illusion that each story is pushing the next ⊕ into exist-
ence, even though the next ⊕ comes from another plotline.
actually, the sense of rising momentum—of each ⊕ pushing the
next—is not an illusion. The film steadily rises in emotion, with the audience
becoming more invested as we build from storyline to storyline. let’s say in
that in a scale of 100, ⊕ a starts at, say, 50 and will end at 65. But ⊕ B,
in another character’s story, will start close to 65 and end at 75, while ⊕
c—jumping to another character’s story—will start near 75 and end at 100.
This technique is excellent not only in its efficacy but in its economy in this
most time-restricted of forms. It’s as if the film is pulling itself up emotionally
by its own boot-straps.
On the matter of group survival, she believes that each member of the
group should be propelled by a strong desire that is capable of unsettling the
group to the point of threatening its survival (this is very astute: it means that
emotions will always be bubbling within the group, providing ongoing con-
flict, hence suspense and energy). she believes, too, that these films function
best when there is a hierarchy of stories, whereby the story with the highest
jeopardy takes precedence, so you need to select this story, which she calls
‘the jewel in the crown’.
The amount of time, effort and planning that even such an experienced
writer brings to a multiple ⊛ film is a salutary reminder of just how
complex these structures are to create.
235
Chapter 31
Plotting issues in multiple-
⊛ quests, reunions and
sieges
Quest films
The basic steps of the group quest are identical to the hero’s journey model,
the basic smiley/Thompson, the simple or advanced story sentence or any
other three-act restorative structure—except it must happen to the group,
not an individual.
The film will take the group of multiple protagonists (instead of just one
⊛) on an adventure/journey well away from their regular life and
into realms where major and often dangerous decisions have to be made. The
action will force the group of protagonists to find new strengths and over-
come new hurdles, and in the course of this ‘adventure’—indeed, as a direct
result of it—the relationship lines happen.
STranGerS and frIendS
Quest films that bring together strangers are obviously not concerned with a
group past in the way that films dealing with long-established groups have to
be. With a group that has a history, the story will deal with unfinished busi-
ness and/or changing loyalties. In groups of strangers, relationship lines will
concern developing relationships within the quest. They may refer back to
the individual’s normality to show how the quest has changed that person. In
Saving Private Ryan, this presents as an obsession on the part of the soldiers
to know each other’s normal social role.
BandS of heroeS/ComInG of aGe
Quest films often deal with heroic figures who by definition are enigmatic
and charismatic and cannot be seen from the inside. hence, the group will
consist of multiple antagonists, often mentor antagonists as the protagonists
will typically be minor figures whom the antagonists influence (as in The
Magnificent Seven and Saving Private Ryan). Note this if you are planning a
235
236 The 21st-Century Screenplay
film about a group of heroic characters. You might have to create a protago-
nist (or protagonists) to be influenced by them. as we’ve seen, coming-of-age
films often feature multiple mentor antagonists.
GrouP aCTIon moVIeS do noT need aS muCh ⊗
chases, fights and escapes stop the main action-line ⊗ in its tracks, because
the action line cannot continue until we see the result of the fight, chase or
escape attempt. This means that, overall, you have less time at your disposal,
so your plots will need to be shorter.
The InSTIGaTor
In quest movies, the instigator is typically engaged in forcing the others to
approach the quest in a way they think is dangerous. This also serves to unite
the other characters in a group survival problem. here, the analogy is with
journey movies. Unless there is ⊖ between the travellers, they can only
react to outside forces, which means that when they are alone there is no
⊖, hence no drama—nothing to quarrel about or discuss.
reunions
In quest films there is a job to be done: a heist to be completed, a competi-
tion to win, enemy aliens to fight. In contrast, reunion films are inherently
static, with much if not all of the story deriving from unfinished emotional
business.
Whereas a quest clearly takes a character out of their normal envi-
ronment and sends them on a physical adventure with other versions of
themselves and plenty of opportunity for character-revealing incidents, a
reunion takes a character out of their normal life and traps them, with other
versions of themselves, in one location. The inherent immobility of reunion
films makes it easy for writers to forget the need for an emotional journey
with significant events. It is very easy to think of reunions just as a device
to get characters together (‘I’ll write a film about a group of gulf War veter-
ans having a reunion’) and stop there, forgetting that interesting character
interaction depends on the group and each of its members undergoing a
strong emotional journey caused by a threat to its survival—all within a
physically static situation.
It’s easy for writers to think that they are providing a good group action
line when all they are doing is depicting ‘business’; that is, scenes about eating,
drinking or entertainment, without internal ⊖ or any ingredients that
drive the story forward. This happens in Parallel Lives, which features a string
Plotting issues in multiple-⊛ quests, reunions and sieges 237
of redundant social events such as a ball, a dormitory raid and ball games,
all of which, while executed with gusto, rapidly become boring because they
are not taking the film anywhere. Peter’s Friends suffers from similar scenes.
It’s easy to make the same mistake in relationship lines, making redundant
chats or bickering take the place of scenes that actually progress unfinished
business, resulting in unfinished business actually impacting on the present
and future. similarly, time can easily be spent establishing the characters’
foibles and describing their past and personal present (their normality)
without linking these things to an ongoing personal dilemma. Parallel Lives
has many examples of this kind of redundant, unfocused ⊖, which is a
close cousin to the repeated normality seen in Mr Saturday Night. It quickly
becomes boring: good characterisation and acting alone are not enough.
There muST STIll Be a ThreaT and a SurVIVal ISSue
While the group story in reunion forms is usually a lot less dynamic and
overt, it still has to deal with the problem of whether or not the group will
survive the ordeal it has to experience. Your group of gulf War veterans
needs to be faced with a threat to its survival or else it is likely to end up as
just a bunch of characters talking, quarrelling, entertaining themselves and
going home again.
To find the group story, the threat and survival issues in reunion films,
look for what caused the reunion, because the group survival issue is often
raised by it and you can create a story out of that. sometimes this will be a
detective story of sorts, as in The Big Chill, which is about why alex suicided
and, leading from this, whether the group will survive the trauma. The film’s
action line puts the group and its members into a siege situation of staying
together in a house (notice how multiple ⊛ categories can over-
lap, with a reunion becoming a siege), where events can be constructed so
that individuals and the group as a whole can confront unfinished business,
discuss the dead man’s motives, and try to construct new ways of relating
to each other. Monsoon Wedding creates another kind of reunion ‘detective
story’, dealing with the bride’s hesitancy about getting married.
The Big Chill gives you one model for the threat in your gulf War veterans’
reunion story (the group gathering because of a threat to its survival) and
Monsoon Wedding gives you another (the threat to the group’s survival hap-
pening at the reunion itself). Use these options as a trigger for brainstorming,
and choose one that permits you to do the kind of character exploration that
attracted you to the group of characters in the first place.
having a mystery at the heart of a reunion story is very useful, inserting
238 The 21st-Century Screenplay
rising suspense to the action and linking the group as ‘suspects’, possibly the
keepers of vital secrets, as the investigation continues, led either by an out-
sider or conducted from within by members. The momentum and interest
can build to a final denouement as clues are uncovered. The secret can cause
credible, powerful and revealing ⊖—suspicions and recriminations—
within the group. Be careful, though, that the secret is not obvious or the
twists predictable, or you may get into cliché. Be careful too that the secret,
if you use one, genuinely threatens the survival of the group now, and is not
just a horrible incident from the past (although of course what threatens the
group now may well be a horrible incident from the past, increasingly haunt-
ing the group with the years).
The GrouP on The CuSP of ChanGe
good reunion stories are almost always about a group that was on the cusp
of change before the traumatic event.
PlannInG
Think of the reunion as an emotional journey for both the group and for
individual members. decide where the journey starts and ends then create a
normal three-act structure. choose events not just because they are typical
or odd things that could happen on a journey, but because each will advance
the action line (the reinvention or death of the group) and fuel the relation-
ship lines.
The InSTIGaTor, TraITor WIThIn and ouTSIder
structurally, the instigator in reunion and siege films injects a story into the
film, because instigators arrive with a plan and a goal and therefore permit
psychological action and movement within the ‘closed walls’ of the physical
action. The instigator’s plan and goal provide the group with internal prob-
lems that can cause ⊖ and shifting loyalties. Meanwhile, the outsider
can do their usual job of challenging the group, articulating its idiosyncra-
sies and invading its privacy. choose your outsider carefully for what they
can credibly reveal about the group. The traitor within always causes good
internal ⊖. If the story is some kind of mystery or detective story, you
may also like to consider which character, if any, holds the key to the secret.
Siege films
In terms of writing problems, siege is midway between quest and reunion.
siege films share with quest films an inbuilt survival ⊗ with clear closure,
Plotting issues in multiple-⊛ quests, reunions and sieges 239
because in most cases the siege is an exciting event that starts and ends, and
stories can be structured around that. But, for the duration of the siege, the
characters are trapped in one place, as they are in reunion films, and this
means the film can become static.
PhySICal SIeGe
The physical siege—people physically imprisoned—is a useful form for
exploring character because it shows people thrown into a stressful and usu-
ally highly dangerous situation. physical confinement creates anxiety which
can insert rising jeopardy. like groups in reunions, the group in a siege is
being forced to change against its will—although it might also be on the cusp
of change. shifting loyalties, breakdown and unexpected courage or coward-
ice are natural subjects to explore in siege and works well to counteract the
physically static nature of siege form.
physical sieges have as their trigger (technically, their disturbance) the
event that sets up the siege; for example, the decision of a gang to rob a bank.
The onset of the siege will usually be the first-act turning point, because it is
what the film is ‘about’. For example, your idea for your bank-robbery film
will be something like ‘a gang sets out to rob a bank but becomes trapped
inside because aliens have unexpectedly landed’. Once you know what the
siege is, and when it starts, you can work backwards to create the pre-siege
normality and a suitable disturbance.
The ⊪ will normally be the duration of the siege, and it will
show the conflicts within the group. Work out what emotional progres-
sion you want for individuals and the group and create a scenario within
the siege to permit that, utilising your traitor within and outsider to the
full, swapping these roles between your characters. The second-act turning
point in the group story will be the lowest point for the group followed by
the decision to fight back. The third act will normally be a battle (in this
instance, to escape). Make the ⊝ answer the first-act question of ‘Will
the group escape the siege and survive?’ even the most straightforward
action adventure group story will show the group changed emotionally,
often with some members dead.
as you structure the various plotlines, remember that they will all need to
⊝ in and around the ⊩ of the siege.
SoCIal SIeGe
social sieges are one of the hardest multiple ⊛ forms to write. partly
this is because they are inherently static, being about people trapped in one
240 The 21st-Century Screenplay
place in rigidly restricted social roles (it’s hard to create a driving story about
people who want to stay boring) but partly because social sieges are often
predictable. comic social sieges predictably have the instigator winning over
the group, with all ⊥ happily. darker social sieges are equally predict-
able, except that the instigator is crushed. This predictability even creeps into
very fine social sieges like Revolutionary Road which, while poignant and
thought-provoking, does not have the energy of American Beauty, an energy
given by its whodunit ingredients and its final twists.
Because all of its members are already in a siege situation, the social siege
needs a threat to its survival in the form of a trigger. This can be an internal
trigger in the form of a decision by a member to reject the status quo, or an
external trigger such as a catastrophic accident happening to a member or
the whole group. The external trigger turns the ⊗ into a group quest with
a ready-made adventure. an internal trigger, a rebellious member, has to
be dealt with differently. You need to think of the rebel as the threat to the
group, just as in quest stories the enemy soldiers or the meteorite hurtling
towards earth are the threat. In practice, it means that you have to give the
rebel–instigator his or her own plotline (tracking their rebellion) and create
⊗ material for the other characters that shows each fighting the instigator
in a unique way, their joint goal being to stop that person and restore nor-
mality; just as, in a quest, each group member would be fighting the aliens
or the meteorite.
emoTIonal SIeGe
emotional sieges—usually, films about troubled families—show people
trapped inside meaningless or actively destructive relationships. The trigger
is often a past accident (as in Ordinary People or Rachel Getting Married),
or the film may simply deal with the the group having to deal with ongoing
catastrophes (as in To Live).
ComIC heIST
comic heist or kidnap sieges often bring two or more groups of protago-
nists into ⊖. For example, a town may divide into two warring factions.
But all of the protagonists will usually still be versions of the same protago-
nist. The group action line will be how two different factions respond to the
same threat. ‘Will the group survive?’ will still be the key issue. set up the
two groups quickly because your story does not properly start until they are
established.
Plotting issues in multiple-⊛ quests, reunions and sieges 241
InSTIGaTor, ouTSIder and TraITor WIThIn
These three character types keep the internal ⊖ of the siege bubbling.
as in all siege situations, the instigator is a very useful character creating
⊖ within the group, without which there would only be the problem
with the external enemy. The traitor within is an explosive, secret character,
particularly powerful in siege situations because being imprisoned can cred-
ibly shorten their fuse. Outsiders, as ever, should be chosen with care so that
they can reveal as much as possible about the group’s rules and taboos. There
may be a number of outsiders in a siege film.
Chapter 32
american Beauty: multiple
⊛ social siege
AMERICAN BEAUTY Is recOgNIsaBle as a multiple ⊛ social
siege film rather than a one-hero story because the action successfully and
frequently leaves lester (the instigator) to follow several other characters
in their separate stories: lester’s daughter Jane, her friend angela, his wife
carolyn, the boy next door ricky Fitts and the boy’s father Frank Fitts, a
retired marine. The group story (macro) is indeed a threat to the group’s
survival. It is lester’s rebellion against his role as respected breadwinner, hus-
band and father.
The ⊨
Openings are vitally important in all multiple ⊛ films. The group
and group threat need to be set up early, with high energy, a difficult task
when the material is about people leading boring lives: too easily, the film
itself becomes boring. American Beauty avoids boredom by starting with the
highest jeopardy and strongest hook of all: the threat of murder. The first
moments show lester’s daughter plotting her father’s murder. We then hear
lester in ⊞-over predicting his own death. The film has become a mur-
der story, which adds continuing and building suspense to everything that
happens.
flaShBaCk
The structure of American Beauty is actually a kind of double ⊚ flash-
back whereby the film opens and concludes in the present, and we return to
the present intermittently throughout—except that in the present lester is
dead. In the present we see high-angle footage of the neighbourhood where
the story is set, closing in on its characters, and hear only lester in ⊞-
over, speaking from beyond the grave, explaining that what his living self
does not realise is that he will be dead in a matter of months.
The film ends with lester’s murder by a member of the group, which at
the lowest level concludes the detective story and, in terms of the film’s higher
242
american Beauty: multiple ⊛ social siege 243
meaning, provides closure to the macro, answering the problem of whether
the group will survive (it will not). returning to the present after the long
flashback is also helpful in closure, and permits a startling end to the film in
which the deceased lester talks about the moment of death.
Note how the flashback is set up and resolved in classic case history
flashback style. It starts at the triggering crisis, lester’s death, which is both
the ⊝ of the story in the past and the start of the story in the present.
lester’s actual death will be the film’s ⊝, with the necessary ‘rosebud’
twist (referring to the unexpected twist at the end of Citizen Kane, where
the investigator ⊛, the journalist, never finds out the meaning of
Kane’s dying word, but the audience does) being that lester, dead, actually
talks about the moment of his death, and the visions he describes are shown
on screen.
The InSTIGaTor, TraITor and The ouTSIder
The traitor within is Frank Fitts, although lester’s wife and daughter also
sometimes play that role. The outsider—who, in typical outsider style, ques-
tions the functioning and beliefs of the group and introduces conflicting and
new views—is ricky, with his drug dealing, his ever-present video camera,
and his compulsion to capture and hold beauty.
The maCro
lester’s rebellion, the film’s macro, has a complete three-act action line (his
career as breadwinner) and a complete three-act relationship line (lester’s
crush on angela). In the ⊨ moments of the film, lester’s normality in
marriage and at work are established. The disturbance in his action line is
being threatened with retrenchment, and in his relationship line it is encoun-
tering angela. The first-act turning points in the action and relationship lines
are the triggers for his rebellion. The first-act turning point in his action line
is quitting his job and in his relationship line, the moment when angela sug-
gests that he work out and he decides to pursue her sexually. as usual, the
first-act turning point of these two storylines is what the film is ‘about’.
The ⊪ covers lester’s rebellion. The second-act turning point in
his action line is when he serves his wife and her lover at the fast-food res-
taurant and declares that his role as husband and breadwinner is over. In
his relationship line, it is when angela tells him that she is a virgin, thereby
aborting their attempt at sex. The ⊝ of both stories is his death. There
are high levels of suspense in lester’s action and relationship lines: ‘Will he
be murdered?’ and ‘Will he have sex with an underage girl?’
242
244 The 21st-Century Screenplay
leSTer CauSeS TrouBle for eVeryone
Note how lester’s rebellion impacts on each individual, first irritating them,
then significantly angering several people to the point where they want to
murder him. In American Beauty, each character is involved in at least one
and sometimes more well-structured three-act narratives—relationship trian-
gles—in which lester is the ⊣, the irritant, and which could be called
‘lester causes me trouble’. There is: carolyn/Buddy/lester, Jane/angela/lester,
ricky/Frank/lester, Jane/ricky/lester and Jane/carolyn/lester.
The behaviour of group members towards lester is not random, it is not
just the accidental foibles of interesting characters. It is a manifestation of the
group’s need to destroy what is threatening it. What this gives you in terms
of drama is driven individuals, people who want something, people with a
goal, moreover, the same goal. This avoids characters in search of a ⊗, a big
potential problem in all social sieges.
Same ⊝, aVerTInG PredICTaBIlITy
structurally, the ⊝ of each of the relationship-line stories in American
Beauty is, not surprisingly, lester’s death, the destruction of the threat (the
exact equivalent of, say, the destruction of the meteorite in Armageddon, or
holding back the final german attack in Saving Private Ryan).
The film is deliberately structured so that each character’s story seems
to be moving towards a ⊝ in which one of the protagonists, we don’t
know which, will kill lester. This is a masterstroke because it pulls against
predictability. It is done so well that it is impossible to work out until the
last moment who will be the murderer. In effect this is providing a complex
whodunit, with driven potential murderers, and it provides very high levels
of suspense and jeopardy. compare the rather different jeopardy—more like
dread of the inevitable—in Revolutionary Road, in which individuals in the
group do not set out to physically harm april Wheeler, but instead ⊞
strong disapproval, ironically the strongest disapproval being voiced by the
person who was initially the instigator: Frank, her husband.
SeCreT reBellIon
all of the relationship lines in American Beauty show people rebelling in
their different ways against the status quo, often secretly. This is typical of
social siege films. Frank, the supreme agent of status quo, is a repressed
homosexual and a murderer. carolyn is an adulteress, a mother who assaults
her daughter, and a wife who plots to kill her husband. Jane hates her parents
(even fantasising about getting lester murdered); dresses rebelliously and
american Beauty: multiple ⊛ social siege 245
takes up with ricky, the dreamy outsider and drug dealer. angela pretends
to be a slut. ricky sells drugs, and videotapes anything that interests him
(including corpses) with no regard for normal notions of privacy or propri-
ety. he and Jane plan to run away and live on drug money. While some of
this antisocial behavior is not in the form of proper stories (the interaction
between Jane and carolyn, for example), frequently there are proper stories
set up as genuine three-act structures; with a disturbance, act turning points
and a ⊝. carolyn’s affair with Buddy is a good example.
⊝ of The maCro, The GrouP STory
While some siege films permit a third-act battle and a triumph, this does not
happen as such in the macro of American Beauty. however, just before lester
dies he seems to have found peace and happiness in himself, and particularly in
the fact that Jane is in love. as he is shot, he is staring with a look of beatific peace
and happiness at a family photo in which he, carolyn and Jane present as the
archetypal happy ⊦-american family. he seems to have transcended his
lust for angela. The look of peace and happiness is still on his face in death. per-
haps lester’s rebellion against convention and his search for beauty via sex has
led him back full circle to a discovery of beauty and peace in ⊦ america.
⊝ of The IndIVIdual STorIeS
In all of the ‘lester causes me trouble’ stories, the ⊝ was set up to be
lester’s murder. This was what was going to reinstate the proper order of
things. Only Frank’s version has a ⊝ involving murder. The other stories
end with an avoidance of murder by the individual (providing a good twist
⊥ for each) but the destruction of the group as a whole. The climaxes
to these different stories answer the question raised by the first-act turning
points in lester’s two stories, which was: ‘how is the group going to sur-
vive this antisocial behaviour?’ The answer is that the group will not survive,
because the group has destroyed itself from within.
deVICeS To PreVenT The SIeGe BeInG STaTIC
To summarise, American Beauty inserts and maintains energy and prevents
predictability by employing a high-jeopardy ⊨ (mention of murder,
flashback device revealing the ⊛ is dead) and setting up a whodunit,
with a range of murder suspects and a number of final twists. additionally, each
member of the group is in rebellion, open or secret, against the status quo.
The enemy of the social siege, like the enemy of political tandem narra-
tive, is predictability.
Section 3
Double journeys
⊚
Chapter 33
Double journeys
The ‘double journey’ film is a version of multiple ⊛ form.
it’s always about two characters journeying either towards each other, or in
parallel, or apart (emotionally or physically or both). examples of double
journey films are Brokeback Mountain, Finding Nemo, Vicky Cristina Bar­
celona, The Lives of Others, The Departed, The Proposition, The Lemon Tree,
Julie and Julia and The Queen. The motto is: ‘two lives in parallel’.
because the action follows two characters in separate lives, each of the
pair is a ⊛ who must have an action line and a separate range of
companions.
The idea of these films being multiple ⊛ films will puzzle many
people, who will feel that as in many of these films we know one traveller bet-
ter than the other, that person is the ⊛, with the other the ⊣
in a one-hero film. i’d say these films spend too much time alone with the
second traveller for that structure to work: furthermore, the central concerns
of these films is not one person’s emotional change and one person’s point of
view. They are films about two individuals in a social context, and they make
their point through an exploration, often critical, of how society moulds and
restricts these two individuals.
The danger of thinking of these films as single ⊛ stories is that
246
Double journeys 247
you can easily forget to follow the second ⊛ (which is what happens
with Ada in Cold Mountain) with the result that one character has nothing
to do.
A buddy movie?
These films are not buddy movies because buddy movies are about the ten-
sions of two people together almost all the time on a single adventure—so all
you need to ⊗ is one adventure, not two. Also, apart from rare cases like
Thelma and Louise, which explores society’s poor treatment of women, they
are not about social issues.
Whereas the friends in buddy movies meet up early (they have to or we
don’t have a film about their joint adventure), double journey films rarely
show the two travellers becoming friends early in the film. often they don’t
even meet until late in the film. double journey protagonists who do meet
early or already know each other usually relate in ways riddled with anxieties
and insecurities. in these and indeed many double journey films, one of the
pair will often not realise the importance of the relationship until the end of
the film. At this point it is frequently and tragically too late. normally, one
character takes the lead in trying to get closer, but will initially be rejected,
or feel rejected.
Opposites
As in normal multiple ⊛ films, the travellers are different versions
of the same ⊛; however, in addition, they usually represent dif-
ferent, usually opposite, responses to a social convention or taboo. Thus, the
two men in Brokeback Mountain are different versions of the gay man in a
homophobic community. in Vicky Cristina Barcelona, the two women rep-
resent different attitudes towards sexual permissiveness. Julie and Julia are
both cooks. in The Queen, Queen elizabeth and Tony blair are two kinds of
national leaders. in The Lives of Others, The Proposition and The Departed, the
two protagonists are on opposite sides of the law. in The Lemon Tree, the two
women neighbours are from enemy countries.
Where the characters differ gives you the ⊙,
message and action line
The social convention, rule or taboo that the two travellers differ about pro-
vides the ⊙ and message, and points the way towards the main action
line—the macro—which is the adventure the two have together. The external
events of the double journey provide the macro of the film. for example, in
246
248 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Brokeback Mountain, the macro ⊗ is how the two men first meet, then how
they meet over the years for camping trips; in The Queen, it is the events that
followed diana’s death, both within the royal family and in the public at large;
in The Lemon Tree, it is the decision by security services to remove the lemon
orchard, and the steps each side takes in response to that decision. The macro
permits the relationship that you want to explore to actually happen and, of
course, is closely entwined with it. hence, we have plots like: ‘the problems of
two soulmates who can only meet secretly’, ‘the problems of a monarch and a
prime minister dealing with a rival for the public’s affection’ or ‘the problems
of two women on either side of the Palestinian/israeli divide’. Choose your
macro ⊗ so that it will permit the relationship between your protagonists
to unfold in the way you want.
The macro in these films is a version of the general multiple ⊛
film of ‘will the group survive?’. it is ‘how will the relationship emerge from
this situation?’, to which the answer is sometimes that it survives well (with a
successful relationship and enduring love) and sometimes it does not survive
(with the travellers parting).
Story content
double journey films typically explore, challenge and often criticise the
particular social conventions that are troubling the two central characters.
hence, the macro puts the characters in a position where they have to con-
front or play out what is troubling or dividing them. The Lemon Tree wants
to explore the day-to-day interaction of Palestinians and israelis, so creates a
⊗ around a woman from each side who are, literally, neighbours. Brokeback
Mountain wants to explore homophobia, repression and self-hatred, so has a
⊗ that puts two gay men into a situation where a dangerous secret liaison is
possible. The Queen wants to challenge and explore the idea of a good leader,
so sets at loggerheads two different kinds of national leader with opposing
views as to how to deal with the death of the Queen’s rival, the ‘ people’s prin-
cess’. The Lives of Others sets a cold, unartistic Stasi agent to spy on his polar
opposite, a rebellious writer. in Vicky Cristina Barcelona, a conformist and a
nonconformist travel into each other’s philosophy and out again.
Several action lines and relationship lines
As well as the macro, and the relationship line that it pulls along (both of
which happen when the travellers are together), the film has to give each
character its own action and relationship line for those periods of the film
when he or she is away from the other. make sure these ‘separate life’ action
Double journeys 249
lines will create the kind of relationship material that you want. for example,
if you want each ⊛ to have a troubled life when they are apart, con-
struct action lines to show the precise way in which those lives are troubled.
Is my film a double journey film?
it’s surprisingly easy to miss the fact that your idea is a double journey model.
Some or all of the following questions may help. Ask yourself:
1 do i have two characters journeying towards or away from each
other in the way that happens in films like Brokeback Mountain, The
Lives of Others, Finding Nemo and The Departed?
2 does the story require that each of the pair spends a lot of time with
other characters in another world, and little if any time with each
other?
3 is the film’s main action line about one person hunting down another
or trying to find another, or about two people leading similar parallel
lives or being thrown together at a distance or being attracted across
social conventions or in the face of taboos?
4 is my story about two people leading parallel lives:
•
whom logic says will not grow close? And/or
•
who are either in very distant places or on opposite sides
politically? And/or
•
who represent different responses to the same events or to
social conventions?
The key question, usually, is whether the couple spend a lot of time apart in
different worlds.
if you think your film is a double journey, instantly start thinking about
and planning two plots, two journeys (involving two separate three-act
mountains) that finally intersect or diverge at the last moment. Take note that
your characters will usually have different and opposed views to some kind
of social convention, rule or taboo. define how and why they are in ⊖.
This will give you both your message and your scenario. Create a macro ⊗
that makes them confront their difference, hence lets you explore it. All of
your action lines must permit your relationship lines to happen.
Social dimension adds depth
if your idea presents simply as two characters in opposition, pinpoint the
social convention that divides them. for example, Finding Nemo could sim-
ply have been a fun film about a baby fish who gets lost and is found again
by his dad. instead, the issue of over-protective fatherhood is added, which
250 The 21st-Century Screenplay
gives the film a much greater resonance, engaging not only adults intellectu-
ally, but even small children, thus satisfying its wide demographic.
Maintain ⊖
be careful to find sufficient ⊖ and difference between your two travel-
lers, and good reasons to keep them apart. remember they are two versions
of the same ⊛. don’t make them identical twins! Give each a sepa-
rate world. Pinpoint how and why they are different, and start thinking of
ways that the ⊗ can demonstrate the differences to provide ⊖ and
increase interest. Consciously make their travelling towards each other or
apart interesting.
remember that you will have three action lines with matching relation-
ship lines: one set for each of the characters when they are off leading their
separate lives, and a third set that tracks the progression of their relationship.
because you have three sets instead of one, each will be quite short. depend-
ing on the story, sometimes the lives your travellers lead when they are apart
will be extensive (as in Vicky Cristina Barcelona), sometimes very little will
happen when they are apart (which happens in The Lives of Others, where, as
an important part of the film, the Stasi man has virtually no human contact
in his private life at all). find the action line for each of these three storylines
and peg each relationship line to its timeline.
The storyline that will hold the entire film together will in most cases
be the storyline about them when they are together. it will normally be an
action line with a clear timeline of crucial events (not always, as in Vicky
Cristina Barcelona, where the individual stories pull the action along, but
frequently, as in The Queen and The Lives of Others, when what happens to
the two in their public interaction drives their personal relationship). if your
action line does perform this crucial central role, peg your other stories to its
timeline. make sure that each meeting of the protagonists marks a change in
the relationship. be careful not to give all of the meetings the same outcome.
A kind of love story
These films are always a story of twin souls or mirror opposites—a kind of
love story or anti-love story—so, as with all love stories, the heat and sus-
pense come from the question of whether and how the couple will come
together or part, and you have to maintain that heat and suspense by keeping
the travellers either apart until the last moment or, if it is a tragic version,
together until the last moment. invent social and emotional hurdles and bar-
riers. Keeping one character a bit mysterious will help here, so the audience
Double journeys 251
can puzzle about their motivation or whereabouts or actions. dramatic
irony (whereby we, the audience, know something about one traveller that’s
unknown to the other; for example, their whereabouts or the fact that they
never received a vital letter) can also help, permitting your film to remain
suspenseful.
Odyssey structure?
Quite often, double journey stories are odyssey stories. Finding Nemo is one
such. Finding Nemo doesn’t need to start in the ⊦ because there is suf-
ficient jeopardy at the start when nemo, the sole remaining son (and an
injured son, at that) is lost. however, depending on your story material, your
double journey might need a central start (see pp. 370–5).
More travellers?
in the future we may see triple or quadruple journeys, as audiences become
faster and faster in picking up clues and handling multiple narratives.
Section 4
Flashback ⊚
Chapter 34
Flashback: An introduction
flAShbACK, Seen in filmS such as Slumdog Millionaire, Milk, The
Curious Case of Benjamin Button, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind,
Memento, Cinema Paradiso, Shine, Amadeus, ⊯ Clayton, Annie Hall,
The Home Song Stories, The Constant Gardener, The Sweet Hereafter, The
Green Mile, Citizen Kane, The Usual Suspects, The Remains of the Day, The
English Patient and many others, is one of the most exciting storytelling
techniques available to screenwriters. it blows open the traditional, sequen-
tial three-act ⊚ structure in the most radical way and offers writers
a freedom and range that is dazzling. Through flashback, the audience can
relive the past rather than just hearing about it. it can transmit what might
have been as well as what was. it works equally well for comedy as for drama.
it can give an epic grandeur to a film and it is unequalled in taking us inside
a character’s mind.
To see just how much flashback can enrich a film, let’s look at a conven-
tional linear version of Slumdog Millionaire. it would either tell Slumdog as
an episodic three-act story starting at its chronological start in jamal’s child-
hood, or as a three-act story ⊤ with jamal as an adult working as
chai wallah. The past would be told as backstory through ⊘, typically
in ⊖ situations like arguments (where the past can be credibly brought
252
Flashback: An introduction 253
up) or explanations to an interrogator. This version would have run some-
thing along the following lines.
Slumdog Millionaire told as a conventional linear
story
jamal is working as a chai wallah (normality). he finds his lost brother, then
latika (disturbance), with the backstory of the three told briefly in ⊘
(for example, via recriminations). his plan is to rescue latika, but he has no
money to successfully evade her gangster captor. his first-act turning point
(surprise/obstacle) is getting on the show Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?
(which might give him the chance to get the money). The ⊪ shows
him progressing successfully through the show, increasingly suspected of
cheating. between show episodes, as part of his relationship line, he seeks
out latika and Salim, as in the existing film. his second-act turning point
(moment closest to death) is the police interrogation scenes, during which, in
an impassioned but brief speech to his interrogator, he reveals how he knew
all the answers to the questions (decision to fight back). As his third-act bat-
tle to win, he returns to the show to answer the final question. Winning (as
per the existing film with, in the relationship line, latika freed by Salim’s self-
sacrificing suicide), provides both action- and relationship-line climaxes.
needless to say, this version doesn’t begin to approach the richness and
depth of the real movie, which actually shows us Salim’s past. of course, the
committed conventional ⊚ supporter would respond that Slumdog is
indeed brilliant, but flashback wrongly used is a recipe for disaster—which
is absolutely right. jumping from a story in the present to the past is always
dangerous—partly because the story in the present stops for the flashback,
which can cause slowing, and partly because the audience might forget where
they jumped from.
So, can we set down any rules or patterns at all to identify why and how
best to use flashback? fascinatingly, and very usefully, there are definite
patterns and rules underlying all successful flashback films, and these are
directly related to the conventional three-act ⊚. At present, flashback
ranges from simple, self-contained chunks of backstory in otherwise linear
one-hero films to complex structures like the eleven stories in nine different
time frames we see in The Sweet Hereafter. excitingly, flashback forms are
developing and hybridising all the time, encouraged by audiences who are
highly receptive to non-linear forms and well used to flashback from TV and
online drama. There are five simple flashback forms and two complex forms,
the latter we can bracket together and term ‘double ⊚ flashback.’
252
Chapter 35
Simple flashback forms
reAlly, All fiVe SimPle flashback forms are just devices added to con-
ventional, linear three-act stories to add impact. We will look at each of these
in turn, and then, to show them in action, we’ll look at how each could be
applied to ‘Cinderella’. They are:
1. FlAShbACk AS IlluSTrATIOn/MeMOry
These are self-contained bits of backstory, comic or dramatic (as in the his-
tory of butch’s watch in Pulp Fiction).
2. regreT FlAShbACkS
These are non-chronological fragments about an unsuccessful love relation-
ship (Annie Hall, And When Did You Last See Your Father?).
3. bOOkenD FlAShbACk
This is a frame to add either dignity, gravitas and poignancy to a story (as in
Titanic or Saving Private Ryan) or a shock at the end of a story (as in Fight
Club or Sunset Boulevard).
4. PrevIeW FlAShbACk
This is a preview at the start of the film of a powerful ⊕ or ⊟
within the film, often from the later part (as in ⊯ Clayton or Goodfellas)
to hook the audience.
5. lIFe-ChAngIng InCIDenT FlAShbACk
A life-changing incident is told incrementally, emerging in full and fully
understandable form only close the end of the film (Catch 22 or The End of
the Affair).
254
Simple flashback forms 255
⊞-Over AuTObIOgrAPhICAl nArrATOr
All of these forms can use an autobiographical narrator, speaking in ⊞-
over. Sometimes the ⊞-over is just a way of adding colour and immediacy
to a character (as when a character is replying to a detective’s questions, and
their ⊞ continues over the flashback), sometimes it is used to trick the
audience and provide a final twist (as in Fight Club or Sunset Boulevard).
Some films use a narrator who is only a minor player in the action, others use
a person who is not in the film at all, a kind of ubiquitous storyteller.
Flashback as illustration/memory
flashback as illustration/memory is just a backstory device in films set in the
present. for example, a detective asks: ‘Where were you last Tuesday night?’
and the action depicts those events on screen, often with ⊞-over, before
the film jumps back to the present. really, flashback as illustration is a way
following the old writer’s rule of ‘show, don’t tell’. except in special cases, it
doesn’t affect the overall structure of the film. use flashback as illustration
sparingly, and set up a pattern for the audience. for example, if you give one
suspect in your murder story a flashback to illustrate their alibi, it’s prob-
ably best to give all of the suspects an alibi flashback. flashbacks that simply
repeat what has just been said in words are a waste of precious screen time,
as are flashbacks that simply contain information that could be transmitted
via deft ⊘ in the present.
flashback as illustration appears in all kinds of film structures. it appears
throughout the tandem ⊚ crime story Crimes and Misdemeanors as
memories haunting a criminal. it appears in the multiple ⊛ film
Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon as a self-contained slab of backstory and,
as i’ve mentioned, in Pulp Fiction, it appears in butch’s dream about the
watch.
The rule here is to make sure that the flashback is highly pertinent to what
later happens in the story, or the audience will get lost or distracted.
Whether in comedy or drama, you need to peg flashback as illustration
to a strong main story in the present. An unconnected series of flashbacks
pegged to a weak and wandering ⊗ will get tedious frighteningly quickly.
bAbeTTe’S FlAShbACk
occasionally you will find a conventional three-act film which has one
complete and lengthy flashback at the start. While this is really just one big
slab of backstory, it is so long that it has a structural impact. We can call
this ‘babette’s flashback’ because Babette’s Feast contains such a memorable
254
256 The 21st-Century Screenplay
example. The past lives of babette and her sisters are told in one long flash-
back before the film’s disturbance (the disturbance being babette winning the
lottery). There’s Something About Mary does the same. The film opens with
the film’s disturbance—Ted falling in love with mary—which happened thir-
teen years before and is introduced in ⊞-over by the older Ted.
hOW TO uSe FlAShbACkS AS IlluSTrATIOn/MeMOry In
‘CInDerellA’
used like this, there would be flashbacks to events in Cinderella’s recent past
as the story proceeds. Babette-style long flashbacks from the distant past
would not be appropriate because the main interest of Cinderella’s story is
not unfinished business that needs to be fixed in the present. The interest in
‘Cinderella’ is what happens after the invitation.
regret flashbacks
Some films use a series of illustration flashbacks, presented out of chron-
ological order, to deliberately create a kind of incomplete jigsaw of an
unhappy, unsuccessful relationship in the past that the ⊛ can-
not understand or get over. Two films in this category are Annie Hall and
And When Did You Last See Your Father?, the first about a failed romance,
the second about a man unable to connect with his difficult father dur-
ing the father’s terminal illness. These films end with the ⊛ still
bewildered and troubled by what happened. The message in both is that the
relationship should have worked, and possibly would have had both parties
worked harder, but, sadly, they didn’t—and that’s the way life is. because
regret is the dominant emotion in the ⊛ and the audience, we can
call this ‘regret flashbacks’: non-chronological flashback fragments depict-
ing a failed relationship.
Annie Hall’s flashbacks show snippets from Alvy’s relationship with a
range of women, and depict the entire relationship with Annie hall, doing
so very wittily, and using clever techniques like putting characters from the
present into the flashback, observing themselves. flashbacks in And When
Did You Last See Your Father? show fragments of the pair’s troubled relation-
ship over the years, culminating in their mutual inability to reconcile.
be aware that regret flashback films can easily meander because the flash-
backs are not shown in chronological order (And When Did You Last See
Your Father? has problems here). make sure your flashbacks are telling, and
connect them to some kind of ongoing suspenseful story in the present.
Simple flashback forms 257
ShOulD yOu uSe regreT FlAShbACkS Or DOuble
⊚ FlAShbACk (A Full STOry In PAST AnD
PreSenT, lIke SluMDOg MIllIOnAIre)?
if you want to write a story firmly rooted in the present that concludes by
showing a ⊛ troubled about a failed relationship that should have
worked better but, tragically, didn’t, think about ‘regret’ flashbacks. however,
if your story is about a ⊛ gradually finding out crucial new infor-
mation about the past that solves much or all of what’s troubling them in the
present it’s probably better done as double ⊚ flashback (The End of the
Affair) or preview flashback (Cinema Paradiso), both described below.
hOW TO uSe regreT FlAShbACkS In ‘CInDerellA’
regret flashbacks would only be useful if Cinderella and the prince had split
up; although perhaps you could use it if the prince had not sought out Cin-
derella. you might have to invent a lot of ⊗ because the heat of a regret
flashbacks film is a person, in the present, musing over what has happened in
the past. The earliest your film could start would be just after the ball.
bookend flashback
bookend flashbacks (as in films like Saving Private Ryan, The Green Mile,
Stand by Me, The Home Song Stories and Titanic) are a simple framing device
and involve no jumping between past and present during the film. The film
consists of a complete linear story from the past inserted inside one ⊕ or
⊟ set in the present. The film typically opens with a character forced
to remember a crucial period in their remote past. The action then jumps
back to the start of that period in their past and runs chronologically without
interruption through to its ⊩ (usually also in the past). At this point,
the action returns to the ⊨ ⊕ in the present, followed quickly by a
⊡ and the end of the film.
note that the ⊥ in bookend flashback always provides a surprise—a
rosebud twist that changes the whole meaning of the film and gives a pow-
erful last-minute surprise or ⊝. The rosebud twist provides the real
⊝ of the film, the moment when the film’s final meaning is revealed. A
twist is necessary because otherwise the ⊥ would be an exact repeat
of what we’ve already seen, hence an anticlimax. We shall see the rosebud
twist again later when we look at Citizen Kane and other double ⊚
flashback films. usually, but not always, the rosebud twist provides classic
dramatic irony (whereby the audience knows something the ⊛
doesn’t). A good rosebud twist provides very satisfying closure.
258 The 21st-Century Screenplay
in chronological terms, the bookend ⊕ will be very close to the film’s
end and often many years after the main action of the film. if you want your
film to open with a ⊕ from somewhere in its ⊦, then jump back to
its start and progress chronologically from start to finish, repeating the ⊕
it opened with on the way (as in ⊯ Clayton, Goodfellas or Walk the
Line), this is not bookend flashback. it’s probably another kind of flashback,
preview flashback, which we look at later.
bookend flashback can appear in all kinds of film structures. it often
appears in multiple ⊛ films (such as Saving Private Ryan and Stand
by Me). because bookend flashbacks frame a complete story, they are often
inserted during editing. however, there is no reason why a writer cannot
insert them in the script. leaving any kind of major structural decisions to
the editing suite is dangerous.
TWO kInDS OF bOOkenDS
There are two kinds of bookend flashbacks, ones with poignant rosebud
twists and ones with shocking rosebud twists. When you are planning
bookend flashback, you may already know your twist. if you don’t, insert
one of the appropriate kind because otherwise your film will fizzle at the
end. Choose carefully—the message that the audience will walk away with is
whatever you give them in the final twist.
1. POIgnAnT bOOkenD FlAShbACkS
(Saving Private Ryan, Titanic, The Green Mile, The Home Song Stories, Stand
by Me) The person remembering is often old. for example, the poignant twist
at the end of Saving Private Ryan is the identity of the old man in the ⊨
⊕. in The Green Mile, it is the strange effect that john Coffey had on Paul,
the ⊛, and the mouse mr jingles. in Titanic, it is that the old lady,
rose, a survivor of the Titanic, reveals to the audience what happened to the
missing Heart of the Ocean diamond necklace.
Properly used, poignant bookend flashbacks can give a film dignity and
gravitas, often pathos. however, they can also feel redundant, anticlimactic
and even mawkishly sentimental (the old person hobbling away into the sun-
set). The secret here is a powerful story in the past and a clever twist.
Annie Hall has bookend flashbacks of a kind in addition to the regret
flashbacks we discussed. it starts with a speech to camera from the nar-
rator at the chronological end of the story and returns to the narrator at
the end.
Simple flashback forms 259
2. ShOCkIng bOOkenD FlAShbACkS
Shocking bookend flashbacks, as seen in Sunset Boulevard and Fight Club,
usually involve young protagonists, and the twist usually involves violence,
even death. in Sunset Boulevard, the shocking twist is the surprise identity of
the dead body in the pool as the film opens. in Fight Club, it is the identity
and death of Tyler durden. interestingly, Fight Club and Sunset Boulevard
both employ a ⊞-over from a ⊛ who turns out to have tricked
us: the unreliable narrator.
TurnIng ‘CInDerellA’ InTO bOOkenD FlAShbACk
The standard story would be inserted into the ⊦ of a ⊕ or short
⊟ from many years later in Cinderella’s life. An event would have trig-
gered Cinderella either to tell her life story to someone, or to think back
about her life. ⊞-over might be used. There would be a final twist, touch-
ing or shocking, which would provide the message of the film (for example,
that Cinderella’s new life had also been a kind of slavery—poignant—or that
we don’t see the narrator’s face until the end when, say, it emerges, shock-
ingly, that she is actually one of the ugly sisters, who cheated to make the
shoe fit). Cinderella might be an honest or an unreliable narrator.
Preview flashback
Preview flashback occurs in films such as Walk the Line, Brick, ⊯ Clay­
ton, Cinema Paradiso, The Hangover and Goodfellas. Eternal Sunshine of the
Spotless Mind is a hybrid that uses preview flashback plus other sorts of flash-
back. i analyse Eternal Sunshine in detail later (see pp. 264–5, 323–7).
films that use preview flashback are conventional three-act structures, but
they hook the audience by inserting a powerful ⊕ from later in the story
as a tantalising preview before showing the story in a linear way, from start
to finish, repeating the ⊨ ⊕ on the way. Visualise this by imagining
‘Cinderella’ starting at its second-act turning point, with Cinderella running
down the steps of the palace losing her glass slipper as midnight strikes.
next, imagine the story jumping straight back to its ⊤ (Cinderella’s
normality before the arrival of the ball invitation) and proceeding uninter-
rupted from start to finish, repeating the slipper-losing ⊕ in its proper
context and continuing to the ⊝ where the slipper fits.
except in very rare cases, preview flashback at the moment does not
involve jumping back and forth between time frames to an ongoing story in
the present. The only flashback is at the start, so, really, the ⊚ is a kind
of loop. The ⊨ ⊕ comes from either a third of the way through the
260 The 21st-Century Screenplay
film, or half way, or two-thirds of the way. Sometimes the preview section is
very short, as in Goodfellas, other times it is quite long, as in ⊯ Clayton.
The PrevIeW ⊕ MuST be The rIghT One
Preview flashback can go badly wrong if you open on the wrong ⊕. you
may give the audience the wrong clue and send them in the wrong direction,
with disastrous results.
The audience will naturally assume that the characters and content of the
⊨ ⊕ are telling them what the film is about. hence, if the ⊨
⊕ is simply an interesting ⊕ from late in the film, the film’s whole
point can be lost. The preview ⊕ should be a vital ⊕ from the main
story and it must concern the film’s main point, with no possibility for audi-
ence confusion about which characters are the most important.
A film that leads the audience in the wrong direction via a preview flash-
back is the otherwise fine Australian film Three Dollars, about a good family
man struggling to do the right thing by everyone. The action line is that the
man becomes a whistleblower, but its core, its heart and its raison d’être is
supposed to be his troubled but loving relationship with his wife and child.
unfortunately, the film opens with a preview flashback showing the pro-
tagonist losing his job and saying, in ⊞-over, that Amanda, a childhood
friend, always appeared every nine and a half years to change his life. This,
naturally, made many audiences feel that the story was going to be about
something remarkable happening between the ⊛ and Amanda. So
they waited for this story to happen. but in the event, Amanda, who is visited
in flashbacks to the man’s childhood, has no real significance in the film and
appears only at the end to save the hero in a moment of crisis.
unluckily, such is the power of preview flashback that while the film’s key
scenes about the man and his family were playing, many of the film’s audi-
ences were impatiently awaiting Amanda and the start of what they assumed
would be the film’s real story. for these audiences, the family scenes were
nicely written but repetitive and off the point. by the time it became clear
that the man and his family were the core of the film, the film was over. Thus,
Three Dollars, a potentially very fine film, ended up being disappointing for
many people. Possibly Three Dollars’ origin as a novel affected plotting deci-
sions in the film.
Compare this film with Walk the Line and ⊯ Clayton, where the
openings mark a genuine turning point in the ⊛’s story and, when
it returns, is satisfying and injects energy.
Since preview flashback is often inserted at the editing stage, when
Simple flashback forms 261
everyone connected with the film is in danger of being too close to it and
therefore unable to see what a first-time audience will see, it is a particularly
dangerous flashback form. if you, as writer, think your film might use it,
insert it into the script. but make sure that it is leading the audience the way
you want them to go.
DISTInguIShIng PrevIeW FlAShbACk FrOM OTher kInDS
OF FlAShbACk
Preview flashback films differ from bookend flashback films because preview
flashback films continue for some time after the preview ⊕ has returned.
by contrast, the ⊨ ⊕ in bookend flashbacks is close to the film’s
⊥, sometimes only seconds away (think of Saving Private Ryan).
it’s much harder to distinguish preview flashback from double ⊚
flashback films (films such as Slumdog Millionaire, Shine, The English Patient
and The Remains of the Day). There are two major differences:
1 in double ⊚ flashback, the ⊨ ⊕ or ⊟ will
trigger two narratives—one in the past and one in the present—with
action jumping between them.
2 in preview flashback, the preview ⊕ is merely a hook. Preview
flashback films are not primarily stories about the actions in the past
of an enigmatic outsider (again, think of ⊯ Clayton as opposed
to Citizen Kane, Slumdog Millionaire, Shine, Memento etc.).
if you think your film has two separate stories, one in the past and one in the
present, that’s double ⊚ flashback. but if what you want is just a teaser
for the audience, preview is the form you’re after.
DIFFerenT SOrTS OF PrevIeW FlAShbACk
There are several different sorts, and the difference is where the preview actu-
ally occurs chronologically in the story. different positions create different
effects, but preview flashback films always open on a major turning point for
the ⊛ because turning points combine striking action and the pro-
tagonist under emotional stress, therefore provide a powerful audience hook.
usually, the preview is the story’s second-act turning point, ⊮ can be the
disturbance, first-act turning point, ⊢ or ⊝.
1. PrevIeW FlAShbACk AS The FIlM’S DISTurbAnCe
The Sweet Hereafter and The Constant Gardener are thwarted dream flash-
back films that open on a disturbance (the school bus accident and the death
262 The 21st-Century Screenplay
of Tessa). i have not been able to find a preview flashback film that starts on
its disturbance, but if they don’t exist at present (which they probably do
somewhere) they will exist soon. Probably, using a disturbance as a preview
would require a very powerful disturbance indeed.
2. PrevIeW FlAShbACk AT FIrST-ACT TurnIng POInT
Brick, a murder mystery, opens at the first-act turning point surprise—the dis-
covery of a murder victim. it then flashes back to the start of the story and shows
the events that led up to the murder; hence, the whole ⊫ is a flashback.
Brick works well, but ⊨ a film on its first-act turning point is dan-
gerous because the first-act turning point is the moment when the story has
a big surprise that turns it in a new direction. if you give away that surprise
at the start of the film, flashing back to the normality and the set-up prior to
the surprise could easily seem tame. This happens in The Well, a film about
two women who accidentally run down a man then dump his body in an old
well and drop rocks on top of it. later they hear noises, fear he wasn’t killed
and panic that he is coming back to get them. Clearly, the heat of the story
rests in this psychological thriller aspect; that is, what happens after the man
is dumped in the well. however, the film opens on the accident, then flashes
back to the start of the story, showing a ⊫ about how the women met
and came to be driving along, which contributes no useful information about
the past or present, so adds nothing; indeed, actively prevents the film from
progressing to its heat.
The fault here is not so much the use of flashback as a weak ⊫. no
flashback will fix inherently redundant material. Probably The Well’s ⊫
should have been cut massively—so that the man being run down became
the film’s disturbance and the first-act turning point became the noises com-
ing from the well, which is in fact what the film is about. often, cutting the
disturbance and making the first-act turning point the disturbance can sig-
nificantly boost a film’s energy levels, as we’ve seen earlier, pp. 139–41.
Another problem about starting at the first-act turning point is that there
could be a shock effect—a jolt or hiatus—as the film comes back to where it
started and jumps in its new direction. you might want that shock effect. if
you do, fine. Arriaga uses that in the fractured tandem film Three Burials of
Melchiades Estrada to deliberately spin the film in a new direction. however,
if you don’t want the jolt, avoid a first-act turning point start (or use a frac-
tured tandem form that will let you flash forward to conceal the hiatus).
i suspect that Brick works well with its first-act turning point ⊨
because it has a short, fast-moving ⊫.
Simple flashback forms 263
3. PrevIeW FlAShbACk FrOM The ⊦ OF The FIlM (CenTre-
SPlIT FlAShbACk)
This is when, as in Goodfellas, the preview flashback ⊕ or ⊟ comes
from the ⊦ of the film, usually at the ⊢. Centre-split flashback
adds energy to films that are inherently slow to start, such as biographies,
where the start of the story is necessarily (a) the actions of a passive young
⊛, observing and being influenced by others and (b) episodic, thus
potentially meandering and apparently directionless.
Centre split can be used very effectively to point to a moral, as Goodfellas
shows. Goodfellas opens with the horrific and definitive event that marks the
start of the ⊛’s decline into complete depravity. The horrific event
is concluded by a ⊞-over in which the ⊛ says, in a shockingly
cheerful way, that he always wanted to be a gangster. We then flash back to
the ⊛ as an impressionable adolescent starting his career in crime,
follow him through to the ⊦ and the horrific event (up until which
gangsterism is largely a game), then as, increasingly brutalised, he sinks ever
deeper into violence, drugs and promiscuity.
To see the strength of the centre-split flashback in Goodfellas, imagine the
film without it. it would run chronologically, starting with the ⊛ as
an adolescent, then go on to show him as young man, enjoying gangsterism.
The first half of the film would come across as a jaunty, episodic black comedy
endorsing gangsterism. The brutalisation wouldn’t start until the film’s ⊦,
by which time it would probably be too late to introduce a strong moral point.
it would feel as if we had changed films, from gangster romp to cautionary
tale. Starting in the ⊦, with a brutalised man, then flashing back to the
man as an innocent young boy, provides not only a great hook but a direction
for the ⊗ (so it doesn’t feel episodic) and seeds the moral ⊥.
As a postscript on biographies, it is very easy to forget to ⊗ a biography
as a three-act structure building to a ⊝. Too easily you can end up just
inserting events that happened. To write a bio-pic you really need a ‘take’ on
your central character, with events that illustrate that take.
4. PrevIeW FlAShbACk AT SeCOnD-ACT TurnIng POInT (TWO-
ThIrDS PrevIeW FlAShbACk)
This is probably the most common preview flashback and it is a very power-
ful suspense device. Two-thirds preview flashback opens either just before
or during the ⊛’s second-act turning point—their closest moment
to death physically, emotionally or both, followed by a decision to fight back
that becomes, in act three, the battle to win.
264 The 21st-Century Screenplay
for writers trying to seize and hold an audience, the second-act turn-
ing point of a ⊗ is an ideal hook because the ⊛ is at such a bad
moment in their lives that the audience will instantly identify with them and
engage with the film. not only that, they will remember the ⊕, so it both
grabs the audience and holds them.
⊯ Clayton has a preview flashback ⊨ at the second-act
turning point. The film opens as a mr fixit lawyer performs his typical
work—then narrowly escapes a car bomb. This instantly ups the stakes and
pulls us into his story. The film then jumps back to the start of the story, the
disturbance.
We can see the same sort of thing in Walk the Line, although here violence
is only implied. The film opens with johnny Cash about to go on stage in his
famous folsom prison concert. frowning, he thoughtfully strokes the huge
blade of a vicious-looking table saw, which is clearly bringing back bad mem-
ories. instantly, he has our attention, the hint of violence lifting the stakes and
making us intrigued to find out what happens. The film then flashes back to
the start of his story.
Some films that use the second-act turning point for a preview flashback
don’t open on violence or the threat of it; in fact, they don’t feel like a moment
of crisis at all, instead they feel like the start to a story where intriguingly
odd things are happening. for example, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind
(which actually combines this kind of preview flashback with other forms)
simply opens on a man, joel, waking up, being oddly puzzled by a couple of
unremarkable things, heading off to work, then impulsively not taking his
normal train but catching a different one, a train to montauk. At monauk
station he meets an attractive, eccentric woman, Clementine, who initiates a
conversation, and the two seem to be moving into a relationship. it feels like
a linear film, with a normality leading to a disturbance.
it’s only when the ⊟ returns two-thirds of the way through the film
that we realise, to our dismay, that joel, far from being in normality in those
⊨ scenes, was actually at his second-act turning point because, dis-
turbingly, while he has just had a procedure that wiped treasured memories
of his love affair with Clementine, he is not aware of it. however—and this
is crucial—alongside our dismay is excitement because we realise that the
reason joel is catching the train to montauk is because, in some deep part of
his brain, he has remembered Clementine’s plea ‘meet me at montauk’, and
although he doesn’t know it, his train trip is the start of his fight against the
odds, the second part of the second-act turning point.
The shock of realisation followed by a surge of excitement and suspense
Simple flashback forms 265
that comes with the return of the preview ⊕ in Eternal Sunshine of the
Spotless Mind demonstrates clearly why preview flashback using the second-
act turning point is such a powerful tool. its combination of the ⊛
first in deep distress then deciding, with outstanding courage, to fight back
creates what is sometimes termed ‘a leaning-forward moment’; that is, a
moment where audiences get so powerfully seized by the story that they
lean forward in their seats, willing the ⊛ to win. if we were to cre-
ate a graph of the audience’s emotions during the return of the second-act
turning point, their emotions would first track down into deepest depres-
sion, then instantly soar up into optimism. This is exactly the effect we want
three-quarters of the way through the film when, as we must never forget,
the audience has been sitting still for more than an hour and can easily start
to get restless.
interestingly, while it’s widely recognised that a preview ⊕ inserts
energy when it first appears at the start of the film (which is why preview
scenes are so often used), in fact, properly used, it has most of its impact
when it returns, for the reasons i’ve explained above. Wrongly used preview
flashback doesn’t have this energising effect on its return because it doesn’t
lead on to anything, giving us instead just a sense déjà vu, whereby we’re
thinking: ‘Well, we’re back where we started—and so what?’
CIneMA PArADISO: TWO-ThIrDS PrevIeW FlAShbACk
WIThOuT A reTurn OF The PrevIeW ⊕
Cinema Paradiso (the later, director’s cut version) is interesting in that it
opens three-quarters of the way through the ⊛ Toto’s story, at the
death of Alfredo, his surrogate father, but we do not visit that ⊕ again. The
film jumps from this ⊨ to the start of the story, Toto as a little boy. it
then proceeds chronologically through to the point at which teenage Toto
leaves his hometown. it then jumps back to the present, with ⊦-aged
Toto attending the funeral, revisiting the cinema and finding out the truth
of his lost love.
Probably, Cinema Paradiso does not need to return to its ⊨ ⊕
because the second-act turning point is an emotional one, the death of Toto’s
father figure. returning to his receipt of the news would add nothing. The
Constant Gardener, in a different form, but also ⊨ on a second-act
turning point, also does not revisit its ⊨ ⊕, which is also news of a
death. note that the third act in Cinema Paradiso is a battle to win. Toto tries
to win back his lost love, but fails.
266 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Preview flashback or double ⊚ flashback?
it’s very easy to confuse preview flashback, particularly two-thirds preview
flashback, with double ⊚ flashback (as in Slumdog Millionaire, Shine
and The English Patient) and feel you need to use double ⊚ when two-
thirds preview will do the job. As i’ve mentioned and will return to later,
double ⊚ films have at least two complete stories, one in the past and
one in the present, and throughout the film they jump between the two. by
contrast, excellent mechanism though it is, preview flashback is really just
a loop: it starts on a ⊕ from the film, usually the ⊦ or two-thirds
through, then jumps back to the disturbance and continues uninterrupted
until the end.
don’t use double ⊚ flashback unless you really feel you need
an ongoing story in the present because once you opt to use a story in the
present as well as the past you have to service that story, and that (as we’ll
see later) can be quite a task. A story in the present has to have a very good
reason for taking up screen time and if it doesn’t it will feel pointless and
therefore be boring. it has to comment in some way on the story in the past,
and depict a character in the present exploring or having explained to them
a mystery or puzzle central to the story in the past. Stories in the present
without a mystery (as in Pay It Forward), or that frequently feature a char-
acter passively sitting remembering (like Nixon), or just involve characters
engaged in a normality will be boring. Think carefully before you proceed
with double ⊚ flashback about what your story in the present would
actually contribute.
TurnIng ‘CInDerellA’ InTO PrevIeW FlAShbACk
our heading here is not ‘how to use preview flashback in “Cinderella” ’ but
‘turning “Cinderella” into preview flashback’. This is because preview flash-
back actually changes the shape of a film, whereas illustration and regret
flashbacks are just backstory mechanisms inserted into a linear story. ‘Cin-
derella’ is most suited to a two-thirds preview flashback, with Cinderella
running away and losing her slipper at the stroke of midnight. Preview
flashback at disturbance—the invitation to the ball—would have a slowing
effect; there is no need for us to see the ⊕ twice and Cinderella’s normal-
ity is not interesting enough to be worth visiting by a time jump. Preview
flashback at first-act turning point or ⊢ would not be very effec-
tive either, since it would simply send us back to an essentially uneventful
⊫, uneventful because the disturbance is not particularly surpris-
ing. Perhaps this gives us a new clue to preview flashback. Stories with a
Simple flashback forms 267
low-surprise disturbance shouldn’t use preview flashback that starts on a
first-act turning point.
life-changing incident flashback
life-changing incident flashback is one short, traumatic, life-changing ⊕
from the past of a mysterious person at the heart of the film. it keeps recur-
ring incrementally, showing an extra bit each time, until we finally see it in
its entirety, when its final moments explain the baffling motives and behav-
iour of the unfathomable character and solve the central mystery of the film.
hence, your life-changing ⊕:
1 must only reveal its full significance in its final moments
2 is what the film is about.
if you are thinking about using a life-changing incident flashback in your
film, make sure it is genuinely the mystery at the heart of the film; thus, what
the film is about.
Typical life-changing incident flashback films are The End of the Affair
and Catch 22. in Catch 22, the life-changing incident flashback is the story’s
disturbance. it is what causes the ⊛’s story, with the ⊛ yos-
sarian being the enigmatic outsider who is behaving oddly. The film opens
on the second-act turning point (where yossarian is stabbed for apparently
no reason). As he slips into unconsciousness, we see the first moments of his
disturbance, which is the incremental flashback. yossarian is on a bomber,
assisting the plane’s gunner, who appears to be only slightly injured.
The incremental flashback occurs throughout the film, with a little
more shown each time, until we see it in its horrific entirety. What the final
moments of the final flashback reveal is that the man’s abdomen has been
blasted open, with fatal implications, and yossarian discovers that the mor-
phine in the plane’s first-aid kit has been sold by profiteers. having seen this,
we realise it was what has been driving his frantic, often surreal attempts to
get out of the air force.
The flashback appears in its entirety immediately before the film has come
full circle back to yossarian’s second-act turning point, which is where the
film opened. After this, it does not appear again (we don’t need it because
the mystery is solved and its job is done) and, energised by the horror of the
flashback’s final moments, Catch 22 goes into its truncated third act, in which
yossarian actually pursues his lost dream, escaping from hospital and setting
off in a life raft to row his way to Sweden and away from the war.
268 The 21st-Century Screenplay
DOn’T gIve The gAMe AWAy TOO eArly
it’s crucial in all kinds of incremental flashback that you don’t finish the flash-
back too early or have the crucial life-changing incident in the ⊦ of the
flashback. if you do, your film will fizzle. Also, you need to position the final
reveal so that it happens when you are ready to take the story into its final
act. The revelation—the mystery finally solved—will inject great energy, so
capitalise on that.
The enD OF The AFFAIr
The End of the Affair also opens on the story’s second-act turning point
(which is after the mysterious ⊣ Sarah has ended the affair with the
⊛ without warning or explanation) although we stay here, at the
second-act turning point, much longer than in Catch 22 before we go back
to the past.
The life-changing flashback is used rather differently. This time, the
life-changing incident and the flashback depicting it happen not to the pro-
tagonist, but to Sarah. The life-changing incident flashback does not start to
appear until quite late in the story in the past and it is crucially important to
the story that neither the ⊛ nor the audience know until very late
that the incident actually happened at all.
The story of the film is that some years after the abrupt end of the affair,
the ⊛, vicious with resentment and jealousy, gets a private investi-
gator to stalk Sarah and find out whether she has a new lover. much of the
pathos of the film is that, almost too late, he finds out that she ended the
affair not because she didn’t love him but because of a life-changing incident
of which he was unaware. She has loved him all along. The ‘end of the affair’
in the title was the life-changing incident. it is—along with the philosophical
message about God and religion that the incident carries—what the film is
about.
This kind of story is only possible, of course, when the life-changing inci-
dent happens to the ⊣. life-changing incident flashback form is in
itself a kind of detective story, but a story involving an investigator protago-
nist trying to fathom the behaviour of a mysterious ⊣ is actually
quite common in detective stories generally, and the detective does not have
to be romantically involved with the ⊣.
if you wanted to use life-changing incident flashback form in a detective
story film, your film could simply involve a detective ⊛ finding out
the motives of an enigmatic outsider, a person who, unknown to the detec-
tive, is having incremental flashbacks to a life-changing incident or, possibly,
Simple flashback forms 269
the crime being investigated. hence, The End of the Affair provides a useful
template, with good dramatic irony. if you find yourself writing a story like
this, with a life-changing incident flashback happening to the ⊣, you
will have to think carefully about where you position the incremental flash-
backs. They normally occur when the ⊣ has an experience in the
present that triggers a flashback.
you will also have to remember to structure your film with the investiga-
tor as ⊛, climbing the three-act mountain, and not get distracted
into centring the ⊗ around the ⊣, with the ⊛ simply an
observer.
InCreMenTAl DreAM
Sometimes life-changing incident flashback form is used in a conventional
linear film to show the ⊛’s recurring dream, often a nightmare,
incrementally. This happens in Gladiator and Twelve Monkeys and, famously,
Wild Strawberries, with the recurring nightmare in Twelve Monkeys provid-
ing a thought-provoking and pleasing rosebud twist ⊥ to the film. A
chronological series of dreams being dreamt by a ⊛ about their past
is rather different. it is functionally the same as double ⊚ flashback,
the form of Citizen Kane and Slumdog Millionaire. Wild Strawberries contains
both sorts; the first, dreams of actual memories that tell us what happened
in the professor’s past, the second a recurring, building symbolic nightmare.
TurnIng ‘CInDerellA’ InTO lIFe-ChAngIng InCIDenT
FlAShbACk
you could not use life-changing incident flashback in ‘Cinderella’ because the
story as it stands does not show Cinderella or anyone else acting oddly as a
result of some extraordinary event happening in the past. To make it work,
you would need to add a life-changing incident. life-changing incident
flashback needs to live up to its name: it needs to be the cause of shocking
problems in the present.
OTher kInDS OF FlAShbACk In CATCh 22 AnD The enD
OF The AFFAIr
Catch 22 actually contains a range of different flashbacks. There is flashback
as illustration, which illustrates something just stated in ⊘ (when
dreedle asks whether he is indeed decorating soldiers because they have
ditched their bombs in the mediterranean, and we see on screen the event he
is describing). Similarly, there is simple illustration flashback when yossarian
270 The 21st-Century Screenplay
sees the wrecked fuselage of orr’s plane floating in the sea and remembers
orr working on a heating machine in their tent. Again, there is a dream
flashback (another version of memory) where yossarian not only dreams the
life-changing flashback, but also dreams of a naked woman beckoning to
him from the sea. note the eeriness of the life-changing incident in Catch
22, which is shot so as to have a dream-like quality, providing a recurring,
ominous moment of calm. in any film, the director calls the shots, but there
is no reason why, if you as writer wanted this effect, you could not state: ‘omi-
nously calm and dreamlike’ in the script.
The End of the Affair makes very clever use of a tiny snippet of flash-
back as illustration (so brief that it is sometimes almost subliminal) to the
⊛’s memory of the first time he and Sarah made love. it also uses
flashback as illustration (to show Sarah’s version of events when the bomb
went off), blending it with flashback as life-changing incident in the repeated
and incrementally revealed use of the bomb’s explosion and events immedi-
ately before and after. note how the explosion itself recurs independently, at
moments of great emotion. This is a good trick to remember: it adds mystery.
271
Chapter 36
Complex or double ⊚
flashback: An introduction
double ⊚ flAShbACK, Seen in films such as Slumdog Mil­
lionaire, Milk, Shine, Fried Green Tomatoes, The Usual Suspects, The English
Patient, Memento, The Bridges of Madison County, The Curious Case of Ben­
jamin Button, The Sweet Hereafter, The Life of David Gale, Citizen Kane and
many others, tells two or more stories in past and present. double ⊚
flashback often fails because writers insert random flashbacks into flagging
scripts in the hope of increasing energy levels. This is a recipe for disaster.
The flashback does provide instant energy, but when it’s over the script is
still flagging and the audience has forgotten where it was. flashbacks in suc-
cessful double ⊚ flashback films neither contain random material nor
occur at random. remarkably, they consist of a three-act linear story (set in
the past) and they appear in strict chronological order. essentially, to create a
double ⊚ flashback film, you construct two three-act stories, one long
one in the past and one short one in the present, and jump between them at
specific cliff-hangers in each story.
This pattern comes up again and again in double ⊚ films from all
over the world and even (amazingly) appears in works that are thousands of
years old, such as homer’s Odyssey. it is surprisingly easy to follow and recreate.
We will come back to the pattern in a moment. first of all, we need to look at
how you can pick that a film or an idea for a film is double ⊚ flashback.
Characteristics of double ⊚ flashback
The main distinguishing structural features of double ⊚ flashback are:
•
Two narratives The action keeps jumping between one complete
story in the present and at least one complete story in the past. The
story in the past is usually longer and more important than the story
in the present.
•
Enigmatic outsider The film always involves a person or people
in the present finding out about the past actions and motives of
an enigmatic outsider in a way that explains that person’s current
271
272 The 21st-Century Screenplay
behaviour or situation. in autobiographical ⊞-over versions, the
narrator might be the person examining their own actions, and may
or may not also be the enigmatic outsider.
•
Wisdom born of pain, love versus duty The enigmatic outsider
usually has a wisdom born of pain and is always juggling love or
personal fulfilment with duty or social obligation.
•
Epic love story The story in the past is usually epic and often a story
about relationships and great passion, particularly lost love.
•
Detective story The film is a kind of detective story whereby, little
by little, flashbacks explain (or appear to explain) more and more
about an enigmatic outsider who is being asked questions by an
investigator figure or sometimes a ⊟ of investigator figures. if
the enigmatic outsider is dead (as in Citizen Kane), the investigator
will ask the outsiders’ friends and family about them, or read their
letters (for example, The Bridges of Madison County).
•
The past is more important than present While normally a film is
written to make the audience wonder what will happen in response
to a new event, double ⊚ flashback is written to make the
audience wonder what happened in the past, and how the past
impacts on the present and future. The film’s primary concern is
about what happened in the past.
•
The mystery solved The story in the present solves the mystery of the
story of the past or, in a twist, reveals that while the mystery seems to
be solved, it isn’t. This is a quick way to distinguish double ⊚
from other kinds of time jump stories. for example, the story in the
present in City of God is not about solving any mysteries. it just shows
how rocket, stuck in the line of fire between a mob of gangsters and a
group of police, manages to take the final incriminating photos of lil’Z.
•
Action and relationship lines All double ⊚ flashback films
have both action and relationship lines in the past and in the present.
for example, in Shine, in the present david helfgott has an action line
about his career, but also has relationship lines involving his friends and
future wife. in the past, he has an action line dealing with the events of
his career and also a relationship line about his dealings with his father.
A detective story of the human heart
The detective story element mentioned in the list is crucial to double narra-
tive flashback. This form is always a ‘detective story of the human heart’. That
description is not whimsically poetic: it describes story content, which is ‘an
Complex or double ⊚ flashback: An introduction 273
investigator figure, or figures, sets out to discover the dreams and motives of
an enigmatic outsider’. it reminds us that the film must reveal a ⊟ of
clues about the enigmatic outsider’s past (like a detective story), and that those
clues are the innermost secrets of the enigmatic outsider, the reason for their
behaviour. if the film doesn’t fulfil these criteria and do these things it will be
boring, like Pay It Forward (see p. 181). The closest flashback form to this in
terms of the detective story element that we’ve seen so far is life-changing inci-
dent flashback. however, films that use life-changing incident flashback are
about the effects of just one crucial incident on the enigmatic person. double
⊚ flashback is about the effect on the enigmatic person of many inci-
dents, often the events of a lifetime.
Jumping between stories
The TrIggerIng CrISIS
Successful double ⊚ flashback always jumps at major emotional
moments in both of its storylines and we can pick a clear structured pattern
from the film’s ⊨ moments. one family of double ⊚ flashback
opens on the second-act turning point of the story in the past. The other family
opens on the ⊝ of the story in the past. Crucially, in both cases the events
in this ⊨ ⊕ are also what cause the disturbance in the present; indeed,
they sometimes are the disturbance. in other words, the same events and some-
times even the same ⊕ have different functions in each of the two stories.
They are the disturbance (or the trigger for the disturbance) in the story set in
the present and simultaneously the second-act turning point or ⊝ in the
story set in the past. because these events set the double ⊚ in action,
triggering the story in the present, we can call them ‘the triggering crisis’.
for example, the ⊨ ⊟ of Shine shows an apparently crazy
man banging on the door of a closed restaurant late at night. This is the dis-
turbance of the story in the present (‘an apparently crazy man persuades the
staff and owner of a restaurant to let him play the piano, turns out to be
a concert pianist, is a huge success, wins a loving wife and returns trium-
phantly to the concert-hall stage’) but the same ⊕ is also, simultaneously,
the second­act turning point of the story in the past. it is david’s decision to
act—to find a piano—in a story that runs: ‘david helfgott, a child prodigy,
wins fame as a pianist, has a nervous breakdown, stays in psychiatric hospi-
tals for years, comes out, is lost, alone and desperate to play the piano, sets
out to find a piano, finds one in a restaurant, persuades the staff and owner
of a restaurant to let him play the piano, is a huge success, wins a loving wife,
returns triumphantly to the concert-hall stage’).
274 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Another film in the same family as Shine is Slumdog Millionaire, and it
opens in the same way. it opens on jamal’s second-act turning point, his
arrest, which is simultaneously the disturbance of the story in the present,
namely the police chief’s story, the interrogation of jamal.
STORY IN THE PRESENT
Disturbance First-act Second-act ⊝
(triggering crisis) turning point turning point
The film opens on the second-
act turning point in the story in Disturbance in the story in
the past. The content of this the present, which is
⊕ is the same as, or causes, simultaneously the second-act
turning point in the past.
the disturbance in the story of
the present.
Second-act
turning point
First-act (triggering
Disturbance turning point crisis ) ⊝
STORY IN THE PAST
Figure 36.1 The triggering crisis in Shine, Slumdog Millionaire and The english Patient
Citizen Kane belongs to the other family of double ⊚ flashback films
that open on the ⊝ of the story in the past, in this case Kane’s death,
which causes the disturbance of the journalist’s story in the present. The
Usual Suspects, which is in the same family as Citizen Kane, opens on the
moment when the enigmatic outsider, dean Keaton, is murdered, which is
what causes the disturbance of the story in the present, which is the story of
Kujan, the customs officer, interviewing Verbal Kent (see figure 36.3).
We can also understand the way the story in the past and the story in
the present intersect by thinking of them as being like two of Christopher
Vogler’s hero’s journey circles, one set inside the other and linked at one point
(see figure 36.2).
The FIrST FlAShbACk IS TO The DISTurbAnCe In The
PAST
After the triggering crisis, double ⊚ flashback films go quickly into
their first flashback. Again, the content of this first flashback is crucial and is
not chosen at random. The first flashback is the event that started it all; tech-
nically, the disturbance of the story in the past. We’ve seen this jump from
TNEVE
EMAS
EHT
Complex or double ⊚ flashback: An introduction 275
Flashback ⊚ is like two of Vogler’s circles, one inside the other.
Story in the
present (a
short story)
The two stories, one short, one
long, are connected at one
event, at the start of the film.
Story in the past (a long story)
Both stories run clockwise but in different time frames. The action jumps
from exciting points in the present to exciting points in the past and back.
Figure 36.2 Flashback ⊚ is like two of vogler’s circles
second-act turning point to disturbance earlier, in other flashback forms, and
it is vital to keep the story on track.
in Shine, the first flashback is to the disturbance of david’s story in the
past, which is the music competition where he met his first proper piano
teacher, ben rosen (notice it is a dynamic ⊕, interesting in its own
right—we always have to remember our primary job is to tell a good story).
The film stays in the past until the story in the past reaches its first-act turn-
ing point, which is when david’s father agrees to let him start music lessons
with rosen. it then returns to the present.
in Slumdog Millionaire, the story is ‘how a boy from the mumbai slums
wins Who Wants to be a Millionaire?, so the first flashback is to how jamal
was able to answer the first of the questions on the show. When it has shown
us in the past the reason jamal could answer the first question, the story
jumps back to the present.
in Citizen Kane, the first flashback is to the disturbance of Kane’s story
(when he was taken away from his mother). in The Usual Suspects, it is to the
formation of the gang, the disturbance of Keaton’s story.
276 The 21st-Century Screenplay
STORY IN THE PRESENT
Disturbance First-act Second-act ⊝
(triggering crisis) turning point turning point
The film opens on the ⊝
⊕ of the story in the past. Disturbance of the story in
The content of this ⊕ is the the present. This is caused by
same as, or causes, the ⊝ of the story in the past.
disturbance in the story of the
present.
First-act Second-act
Disturbance turning point turning point ⊝ (triggering crisis)
STORY IN THE PAST
AFTer The FIrST FlAShbACk?
After the first flashback, double ⊚ flashback will continue jumping to
and fro between past and present on the dramatic high points of the three-act
structure in each story (making good use of the complications in the second
act) until finally we see the triggering crisis ⊕ again and the film has
come full circle. fascinatingly, once we have seen the triggering crisis again,
the film heads forward chronologically to its ⊝ with no more flashbacks.
There may in some films be brief ‘flashback as illustration’ moments, but there
are no long flashbacks filling in details from the past. So, once we have seen
david helfgott banging on the window a second time, the story progresses
without interruption until its end. Similarly, once we have reached the point
in jamal’s story where he is arrested and taken off to be interviewed by the
police, his story proceeds uninterrupted to its end. Again, in Citizen Kane
and The Usual Suspects, once we have come full circle to the ⊨ ⊕,
there are no more flashbacks.
The jumping pattern in double ⊚ flashback is shown in figure
36.4.
Triggering Disturbance Jump between Return of No more
crisis of story in cliff-hangers in triggering flashbacks
past each story crisis
Figure 36.4 The jumping pattern in double ⊚ flashback
TNEVE
EMAS
EHT
Figure 36.3 The triggering crisis in Citizen kane and The usual Suspects
Complex or double ⊚ flashback: An introduction 277
The triggering crisis injects very powerful energy into double ⊚ flash-
backs at the same time as making sure their two stories are on track. but you
must make sure that your disturbance in the present has been caused by the
second-act turning point or ⊝ of the story in the past. does it matter
whether you open on second-act turning point or ⊝ of the story in the
past? yes, as we shall see in the next chapter.
Chapter 37
Thwarted dream and case history
flashback
There Are TWo mAin families of flashback that differ in both struc-
ture and ⊙. The first is ‘thwarted dream’ flashback (for example, Shine,
Slumdog Millionaire, The Remains of the Day, The English Patient), where
someone is pursuing a lost or stolen dream. The second is ‘case history’ flash-
back (Citizen Kane, The Usual Suspects, The Life of David Gale, The Bridges of
Madison County), which explores an enigmatic, sometimes sinister outsider,
or larger-than-life character. each presents the world and human nature
in a very different way and that world view is reflected in their structure.
That difference in world view explains the apparent paradox i pointed to
earlier, whereby flashbacks in Shine showed david helfgott as a product of
his past, while flashbacks in Citizen Kane showed that Kane remained a mys-
tery despite extensive flashbacks about his past. Thwarted dream, to which
Shine belongs, uses flashbacks to transmit the view that people are a product
of their environment. Case history, to which Citizen Kane belongs and as
its name implies, uses flashbacks to transmit the view that people are not
explained by what has happened to them and are ultimately mysterious,
indeed often sinister.
The thematic and structural differences between thwarted dream and case
history are:
•
the content of the triggering crisis—what scenes are used
•
the message—the view of human nature
•
the return of the triggering crisis ⊕, and what happens after that
•
the use of ⊛, antagonists and mentor antagonists
The content of the triggering crisis
earlier, i said that double ⊚ flashback films opened on either the
second-act turning point or the ⊝ of the story in the past. Thwarted
dream films start on the second-act turning point; case history starts on the
⊝—for reasons we’ll look at below.
278
Thwarted dream and case history flashback 279
The MeSSAge: OPPOSIng vIeWS OF huMAn nATure
Typical thwarted dream flashback films are: Shine, Slumdog Millionaire, The
English Patient and The Remains of the Day. Thwarted dream deals with an
enigmatic outsider pursuing a lost or stolen dream. it’s optimistic, and the
flashbacks reveal the enigmatic outsider to be a good person who has suf-
fered greatly, has a wisdom born of pain, and who now strives to overcome
their past, retrieve their dream, and triumph. The motto here is ‘there but for
the grace of God go i’. usually the outsider does triumph, although poignant
films like The Remains of the Day and The End of the Affair depict the dream
lost at the last moment.
meanwhile, case history flashback, seen in films such as Citizen Kane, The
Usual Suspects and The Life of David Gale, puts forward the opposite view of
human nature: that human beings defy analysis and are more than the sum
total of their past. They are a study (a case history) about people never being
quite what they seem and, indeed, the motto for case history is: ‘people are
never what they seem’. The point of the story is to make the audience believe
something that proves in a final twist to be untrue or unknowable. The enig-
matic outsiders are products of nature rather than nurture, beings who are
ultimately mysterious, unpredictable, often in positions of power and fre-
quently menacing or even criminal. indeed, crime or a cover-up are often
part of the story, frequently as a final twist (a structural point that we’ll look
at later). While the investigator or investigators in thwarted dream usually
succeed in penetrating the mystery of the enigmatic outsider, any investiga-
tor in case history will either not solve the mystery (as in Citizen Kane), be
duped (as in The Usual Suspects) or discover that the mystery was not what
they thought it to be. even the heart-warming Fried Green Tomatoes carries
this message.
reason for the triggering crisis: Thwarted dream
Thwarted dream chooses the second-act turning point from the story of the
past to use in its crisis because the point of the film is to show how an enig-
matic outsider fights a final battle in the third act to regain a dream. hence, a
good place to start is showing that outsider at their worst possible moment.
A thwarted dream film can open either on the first part of the second-act
turning point (the closest point to death—physical, emotional or both—as
in Slumdog Millionaire, when jamal is being tortured) or in its second part
(the decision to act, as in Shine, which opens on david trying to get into the
restaurant to play the piano).
278
280 The 21st-Century Screenplay
reason for the triggering crisis: Case history
Case history chooses the ⊝ of the story in the past as the triggering
crisis for the film because its message is that even if you study the details of a
person’s life or even their whole life, you cannot fathom human nature or you
cannot fathom the extraordinary individual who is the enigmatic outsider.
The films aren’t about the pursuit of dreams, so there is no third-act battle to
win back the dream. The scenario that carries this message is always a story
(tough or poignant) that follows the outsider’s life, deliberately misleading
the audience into believing something about the enigmatic outsider that is
proven wrong at the very last moment, thereby proving the ⊙: people are
inexplicable. This even happens in gentle forms like The Bridges of Madison
County and Fried Green Tomatoes.
Case history films are normally about an enigmatic outsider who is
dead, about to die or (like leonard in Memento and Salieri in Amadeus)
metaphorically returned from the dead. The ⊝ of the story in the
past in case history (and hence the disturbance of the story in the present)
is usually someone’s death, most commonly the death of the enigmatic
outsider but sometimes someone else, as in Memento). This is sound
story telling, as death, the highest jeopardy, will always seize the audience’s
imagination, and so is particularly useful in a film that makes demands
on its audience.
The TrIggerIng CrISIS: SOMe exCePTIOnS
it’s actually more surprising that there is such conformity in the triggering
crisis than that there are exceptions, but we should note them and probably
expect more in films of the future. in Citizen Kane, if we are to be absolutely
precise, the first jump into the past is not a flashback, it is a piece of newsreel
footage summarising Kane’s life (thereby providing very useful backstory in
a dramatic way). however, the first proper flashback is, as we’ve seen, the dis-
turbance. The Sweet Hereafter and The Life of David Gale also have unusual
triggering crises (see pp. 316, 319). Some films, such as Fried Green Toma­
toes, don’t have a triggering crisis at all, which gives them less initial impact,
hence makes them much quieter.
After the return of the triggering crisis
Thwarted dream has a third act, a genuine battle to win, after the return of
the triggering crisis. just as in conventional ⊚, the ⊛ fights
a third-act battle, so in thwarted dream the enigmatic outsider, often with
allies, fights to win the lost dream.
Thwarted dream and case history flashback 281
The third act in the past of thwarted dream is also the entire story in the
present. you can see this if you look back at the description of the third act
of Shine’s story in the past. it is identical to the description of the story in the
present. both are: ‘david helfgott persuades the staff and owner of a restaurant
to let him play the piano, he turns out to be a concert pianist, is a huge success,
wins a loving wife and returns triumphantly to the concert-hall stage.’ So really,
if we were to be absolutely accurate, figure 36.1 would show the story in the
present as being only the same length as act three of the story in the past. every-
thing that happens in the present after david helfgott knocks on the restaurant
door is the third act of his story, and is very much ‘a battle to win’, exactly as
three-act conventional ⊚ requires. ⊮’s also a self-contained three-act
short film (lasting about twenty minutes). Slumdog Millionaire also has a very
clear third-act battle to win (by answering the final question).
Shot of adrenalin in thwarted dream
We’ve seen in preview flashback how the return of the second-act turning
point creates a leaning-forward moment for the audience. The same thing
happens in thwarted dream. The return of the second-act turning point injects
a massive shot of adrenalin into the film exactly when we want it; the audience
now fully understands the enigmatic outsider’s traumatic past and is deeply
invested in their courageous attempt to win back the dream against very unfa-
vourable odds. This is the massive payoff of the detective story of the human
heart, so when you are writing thwarted dream flashback, you must exploit
every minute of it, making your ⊝ a real ‘do or die’ for the dream.
Case history finishes quickly
in case history, the triggering crisis is the ⊝ of the story in the past.
hence, after the return of the triggering crisis, all we see is the film’s resolu-
tion. for example, in The Usual Suspects, after the return of the triggering
crisis (the fire on the ship and the shooting of Keaton) all we see is the twist
⊥, in which Kujan realises he has been duped.
The rosebud twist
because case history opens on its ⊝ (just like bookend flashback), there is
a potential for anticlimax when the ⊝ ⊕ returns. Case history solves
this problem in exactly the same way as bookend flashback: it inserts a rosebud
twist ⊥ after the return of the ⊝/triggering crisis. The twist ⊥ is
a defining and vital structural characteristic of case history flashback because
it carries the film’s message; namely, that people are not what they seem. The
282 The 21st-Century Screenplay
rosebud twist often, but not always, involves dramatic irony—whereby, as in
Citizen Kane, The Usual Suspects and The Life of David Gale, the audience learns
something that the ⊛ either never knows, or else learns too late. in
other films, such as Fried Green Tomatoes or Amadeus, the twist is learnt by
both audience and ⊛ and has its impact via shock value.
DOeS The rOSebuD TWIST MAke CASe hISTOry SuCCeeD?
Arguably, case history flashback succeeds or fails largely on the original-
ity and ingenuity of the rosebud twist. Think of Citizen Kane without the
rosebud ⊥, The Usual Suspects without Verbal Kent’s transformation,
Fried Green Tomatoes without the denouement about the missing corpse or
Memento without the final revelation of the tricks that leonard’s memory
was playing on him. if you are writing a case history double ⊚, work
very hard to invent a clever twist. in a very real sense your film is about your
rosebud twist. however, just as in the Smiley/Thompson model, the pro-
tagonist’s plan in response to the disturbance should send the audience in the
wrong direction so that the first-act turning point surprise comes as a much
bigger surprise, make your audience expect the film to end one way, then
have your rosebud twist show it ⊥ in another real-but-unusual way.
Diagrams of thwarted dream and case history
Above, we looked at how double ⊚ flashback can be usefully depicted
diagrammatically by one circle inside another, touching at one point. To
understand more precisely how the stories in past and present in each form
intersect and see the the exact pattern of the jumping back and forth, look at
figure 37.1, which is a diagram showing the structural mechanics of Shine, a
thwarted dream model.
The STruCTurAl MeChAnICS OF ShIne
in figure 37.1 the story in the past is a big circle, the story in the present is a
small circle. both stories run in a clockwise motion, with the action depicted
as a broken line, moving between past and present. The line running off to
the right at the top of the circle is the film’s action after the return of the trig-
gering crisis. it is a single straight line because, in double ⊚ flashback,
there are no more flashbacks after the return of the triggering crisis.
As we know, the events that happen after the return of the triggering crisis
are simultaneously the third act of david’s story and the story in the present
from after its disturbance to its end. The ⊕ where david plays brilliantly
is the first-act turning point in the story of the present (because the story in
Thwarted dream and case history flashback 283
in c o o N u p o t in s E t ( A i g p d n c e a d t s o 2 t) f ( ( A i m n d T c i r p a s t i t g d c r 2 r u e a g r m r t i s i e s b u n e a i r s r a ) n i n n n n t i — i g c n n e g Act 3 t p ( c u A p a D o r c n a n i a t n s i v p 1 n t t i — l d g ) a — y! 2 T 1 h m e i n p fi u o n t t in a e u A re f t s l r c a — j n t b e t i h 2 c n a D t e g t s a A r t v l c i e d t 1 C , s l 2 i u m , c 3 a ce x ( — s p s rese D n R a e t i v r s ) r i f o d a e l t l u h e h t v a e i a p o r n n p t y,
world po h in o t p — e) no Act 1 present
disturbance
Success continued—
th c e o n l l m ap e s n e tal Act 1 Dav h id o m dr e iven
(present) Disturbance
in the past—
talent
Act 1 present Act 1 present discovered
New disturbance disturbance
friends, continued. continued—
renewed David at home David arrives
ambition defeated home
Father
forbids
trip
Act 2 Act I End of
turning Act 1
point (past)— (past)
David finds a
teacher Journey of
David the enigmatic
offered trip outsider (David
to US Start of Helfgott)
Act 2
(past) Story in the past
Story in the present
Figure 37.1 The structural mechanics of Shine (thwarted dream)
the present is about someone who looks like a demented derelict but turns
out to be a concert pianist). The inner circle is so small because all that hap-
pens in the story of the present between the first appearance of the triggering
crisis and its return is david being taken back to the halfway house, sitting in
his room, then setting out in the rain to return to the restaurant.
The STruCTurAl MeChAnICS OF The uSuAl SuSPeCTS
figure 37.2 is a diagram of The Usual Suspects (a case history model), show-
ing the triggering crisis positioned at the ⊝ of the story in the past and
the disturbance of the story in the present, and depicting the way the film’s
action jumps between its stories.
This story is told in flashbacks by Verbal Kent, as Kujan (the investigator
⊛) interviews him. Kujan is convinced that Keaton is alive; more-
over, that Keaton is actually Keyser Soze.
Kujan’s interrogation of Verbal forms half of the story in the present. The
rest concerns the interrogation of the other survivor, a hungarian man badly
284 The 21st-Century Screenplay
approximately 1
minute
Start of film
⊝
( A p c a t s 3 t) b K V e e e t a r r b t a o a y n l s s C p h ( i m n d l T a i i p m i r s p s a i b t s g t i n c r a h n u e ( e g r x K o b r i i s f e n s b e e i l t e i n a r g a ) s a n i i . m n n t n t t o h — g g c e n e e s , Ac V t a e D 2 n r . b A d c a . o l ntinued tur i c n n — a A i m p n n c K r g ' y t t e u s 2 p s s t j e o a e o n n l r i v n y t e t A ct 3 The op V tw K e e e r S i n b s y o t a s i — z e n l e r is g ⊕ (a V R d e e i r s s b a o a p lu l p / t S e io o a n z r e s
tu A r c n t i n 2 g h d T e r h u i e s g t f o ri f g V S K e h o e r t b z e y e s n a e l e r d (p A re c s t e 2 nt) sh ( o p t A r ). e c s t e 1 nt)t i u K n r i u n n p j t a i A r e n n e c r g s v t s e t i p I e n a o w r t i — t n . s t i D n t i h t s h e tu e l r i p n b a e a s u n t p c — e ( A p c a t s 1 t) m o t in h n a e t n b h c u e l b i r m p e n i a i n a n s g x t g A o s s h N f h o t i D p h t ) e t d h i e s s e t a b o d o r y th
— po d in o o t r t i d h n i e e p j a o s b t de K s S e c o y r s z ib e e r e d Keyser Kob w a a y s ashi po t i u n A r t c n i t n i n 1 p g a st d st i o s r t y u r in b a th n e c e p r o e f s t e h n e t . The
Soze responsible —gang film then jumps
implicated plans job
Keyser Soze between the structural
kills
family high points of each
story’s three-act
Kobayashi Keaton structure—from cliff-
blackmails worried hanger to cliff-hanger—
gang about Eadie
until it reaches the
Kobayashi Act 2 ⊨ ⊕ again . . .
behind it all
Another
Act 2 job Verbal's account— (and the action of
(past) planned action of the film the film)
The journey of the (larger outer circle)
enigmatic outsider
(Keaton)—story in
the past
The journey of the (small inner circle)
investigator (Kujan)—
story in the present
Figure 37.2 The structural mechanics of The usual Suspects (case history)
burned and in hospital. Verbal Kent’s flashbacks depict the formation of the
gang, their first successful job, the second job that goes wrong, and their
manipulation by the arch-criminal Keyser Soze. Soze forces them to set up a
drugs heist on a moored ship. The attempted heist brings the story full circle
to the shipboard fire and dean Keaton’s death.
like Citizen Kane, the investigator ⊛ in the present (dave
Kujan) has learnt a lot about the enigmatic outsider, but by no means all. As
in all case history flashback, there is a rosebud twist at the end proving that
human beings are unpredictable. in this instance it is a moment of dramatic
irony in which, unwitnessed by Kujan, the audience sees limping, cower-
ing Verbal transform into a striding, mysterious arch-criminal—then melt
into nowhere with his offsider, Kobayashi. So the rosebud twist in The Usual
Suspects is that dean Keaton was not the enigmatic outsider at all. The real
enigmatic outsider was Verbal Kent.
While the story in the present is a three-act structure, it is very short.
Thwarted dream and case history flashback 285
note how the diagram shows that much more happens between the first and
second appearances of the triggering crisis in case history than in thwarted
dream. This is natural, because case history opens at the end of the film, at its
⊝, not at the second-act turning point. This is why in figure 37.2 there
are so many word bubbles contained within the two circles.
note too the brevity of the section of the film after the return of the trig-
gering crisis. it runs for only about ten minutes, providing a false ⊡
(containing snippets of flashback as illustration) followed by a rosebud twist
that proves Kujan’s theories utterly wrong.
Story content differences in thwarted dream and
case history
To summarise, the differences in story content between the two forms are:
•
Thwarted dream uses flashbacks to make the audience see the
enigmatic outsider from the inside, as someone sympathetic who has
been damaged by the past; in contrast, case history uses flashbacks to
make the audience see the outsider from the outside, as an ultimately
unknowable (and often sinister) specimen created by past trauma.
•
in case history, the enigmatic outsider is usually dead. This is a useful
tip: if you are planning a flashback film about someone who is dead,
you have to use case history.
•
in thwarted dream, the enigmatic outsider is capable of change. The
audience very much wants them to get their lost dream and, provided
this is physically possible, the outsider usually takes on the challenge.
•
in case history, the outsider is incapable of change or wants to
deceive. This is one of the reasons why such films have to end at
the reappearance of the triggering crisis—because the outsider’s
incapacity for change means the film has nowhere further to go,
except for an ironic twist.
•
in thwarted dream, the person having the flashbacks is the enigmatic
outsider. in case history, the person having the flashbacks is usually
a person or persons who have known the outsider. This is obviously
necessary when the outsider is dead (as in Citizen Kane), ⊮ also
happens when the outsider has in a sense returned from the dead, as
in The Sweet Hereafter or Memento. Quite often, when the outsider
has flashbacks they turn out to be misleading or deliberate lies (as in
The Usual Suspects, The Life of David Gale and Memento).
•
The flashbacks in case history give a documentary reality to the
action. They make the audience a scientific observer, mystified and
286 The 21st-Century Screenplay
often appalled by the outsider, whom the flashbacks do not explain
but make more mysterious. in thwarted dream, the flashbacks
explain the outsider and make them appealing. They make the
audience identify with the outsider.
•
Thwarted dream starts two-thirds through an unfinished story and
has a final third (the third act) using new action in the present. This
action is the pursuit of the lost dream. Case history starts with a story
that is over except for an ironic twist.
•
As a rule of thumb, if the enigmatic outsider is supposed to be a
normal, likeable person damaged by life, flashback as thwarted dream
is used. if the outsider is supposed to be an essentially unknowable,
unpredictable person, flashback as case history is used. flashback as
case history is always used if the audience is supposed to disapprove
of the outsider.
When to use flashback as case history
over and above what is suggested above about story content, flashback as
case history is commonly used in mystery or detective stories, to which its
quasi-documentary feel adds a sense of reality. it is used to tell stories that
are complete, except for a final ironic twist. it is seen a lot on TV. often,
a dateline is superimposed on screen in imitation of news footage. While
the enigmatic outsider in flashback as thwarted dream is found to be sym-
pathetic, and often goes on to achieve their lost dream and be changed by
triumph, the outsider in flashback as case history is usually unchangeable
and sometimes irredeemable, even evil. The ⊛ learns a caution-
ary lesson from them—in fact we could describe flashback as case history as
‘cautionary tale’.
When to use flashback as thwarted dream
The point of flashback as thwarted dream is to reveal the apparent coldness
or mental imbalance of an enigmatic outsider as the understandable result
of shocking personal experiences and thwarted dreams, and in doing so to
show the outsider to be normal, sensitive and likeable. The intention and
effect of flashbacks in this instance is to win the outsider enormous sympathy
and goodwill from the audience, who typically feels that ‘there but for the
grace of God go i’.
This kind of flashback ⊚ often shows that what initially presented
as mental imbalance is really a special wisdom, as in Shine and Forrest Gump.
287
Chapter 38
Flashback: Protagonists,
antagonists and the enigmatic
outsider
one of The hArdeST things to understand about double ⊚ flash-
back films is that there can be many protagonists and the same character can
change from being an ⊣ in one time frame to being a ⊛ in
another. The point of this is to keep the enigmatic outsider mysterious, but
it is so alien to what conventional ⊚ teaches us about protagonists
and antagonists that perhaps the easiest way to explain it is by a personal
anecdote.
When i first started trying to find patterns in flashback films i was puzzled
because, as i was trying to analyse Shine, i couldn’t work out where Gillian,
helfgott’s future wife, fitted in. Shine was clearly a film about david helfgott,
helfgott was clearly the most interesting character, and yet Gillian felt like a
⊛. She provided a normal person’s point of view of david, who was
seen from the outside, presented as a lovable but essentially unpredictable
and unfathomable man. We were in Gillian’s shoes and it was her ‘mountain’
that the film was climbing. however, Gillian didn’t appear until some way
into the story, and before she appeared we were in the shoes of characters like
Sylvia and beryl, others who helped david, who also seemed to be playing the
part of ⊛ to his wild-card ⊣. So, who was the ⊛?
in the flashbacks (to david as a child and as a student) david was defi-
nitely the ⊛. We were in his shoes, something vividly illustrated
by the film’s first flashback to the competition where he met his first piano
teacher, in which we literally see young david’s point of view of the little
church hall as he walks up to the platform to play. however, in the present
and recent past (whenever Geoffrey rush was playing david), except for one
⊕ (when david is with his father in the present, and we are definitely
in his shoes) we were almost always on the outside of david, seeing him
through the eyes of Sylvia, beryl or Gillian.
i found the same thing in The English Patient, in which Count laszlo de
287
288 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Almásy was clearly the ⊛ in the past, but in the present was seen
from the outside. We, the audience, were in the shoes of hana, the nurse,
seeing the mysterious de Almásy through her eyes, and even following her
into her own love story, in which de Almásy did not appear at all. how could
two characters like david helfgott and Count laszlo de Almásy, who were
both so clearly protagonists in the past and so clearly the most interesting
characters in the film, not be protagonists in the present?
Knowing who the ⊛ is in a three-act structure is vital, because,
as we’ve seen, that structure is based on the ⊛’s journey, and the
⊗ content needs to follow the ⊛ up their three-act mountain. if
we don’t know who the ⊛ is in our film, what ⊗ do we include?
Whose mountain do we create? how much ⊗ do we give to other charac-
ters? And if characters who are not the film’s key enigmatic outsider take over
the action (as Gillian and hana do), why doesn’t the film turn into characters
in search of a ⊗? Why don’t we feel that we are ‘in another film’?
To add to the problem, there were films such as The Remains of the Day,
in which the enigmatic outsider mr Stevens was seen from the outside for
most of the story in the present (on his trip to find miss Kenton) but after the
return of the triggering crisis again took the role of ⊛ which he’d
had in the story in the past. in the last heartbreaking moments of the film,
when he meets miss Kenton, we are clearly in his shoes, knowing things that
miss Kenton, tragically, does not.
The enigmatic outsider is a mentor ⊣
i suddenly realised that, in the present, the enigmatic outsiders of dou-
ble ⊚ flashback—characters like mr Stevens, david helfgott, Kane,
Count laszlo de Almásy—are mentor antagonists, exactly like raymond in
Rain Man or merrick in The Elephant Man.
like mentor antagonists, while they are the most interesting character in
the film, indeed are the reason the film was written, dramatically they are
best depicted in the story set in the present from the outside, as antagonists
to less interesting ‘normal’ protagonists, to whom they teach a lesson about
life. in this way, the enigmatic outsiders keep their mystery. As for characters
like Gillian, Sylvia and beryl in Shine, hana in The English Patient, Customs
Agent Kujan in The Usual Suspects and the journalist in Citizen Kane they felt
like protagonists because that’s exactly what they are. They are, i realised, like
Charlie to raymond in Rain Man: less interesting protagonists to a fascinat-
ing mentor ⊣ with a wisdom born of pain or (in the case of wily case
history outsiders like david Gale or Verbal Kent) of duplicity.
Flashback: Protagonists, antagonists and the enigmatic outsider 289
hence, the way to work out and use protagonists and antagonists in dou-
ble ⊚ flashback, both case history and thwarted dream, is to realise
that the enigmatic outsider is a mentor ⊣ for most if not all of the
present.
In thwarted dream the outsider swaps between
being ⊛ in the past and mentor
⊣ in the present
in thwarted dream, the outsider is a ⊛ in the past but a mentor antag-
onist in the present. hence jamal is a mentor ⊣ to the police chief and
his sergeant and the show host—an enigmatic outsider with a wisdom born of
pain—but a ⊛ in his past. in certain thwarted dream flashback films
(and Slumdog Millionaire is one) the outsider can become a ⊛ in the
present after the return of the triggering crisis. This permits them to be the
⊛ as they are fighting their battle to win. if the outsider is too emo-
tionally or physically damaged to become the ⊛ and fight their own
battle to win (as in Shine and The English Patient) they remain mentor antago-
nists for all of the content set in the present. in The English Patient, hana fights
the battle to win as a surrogate, because lazlo is incapacitated.
In case history, the outsider is always a mentor
⊣
in case history at present (and it’s hard to see how this could change), the out-
sider is always a mentor ⊣, that is, in both past and present. This is
most important. it is central to the philosophy behind case history and cru-
cial to the way you structure your case history film. The enigmatic outsider in
case history is never the ⊛. We are never truly in that person’s shoes.
We may think we are (as in The Life of David Gale and The Usual Suspects),
but we are not, as we find out with a shock at the end of both films in the
rosebud twist. in films like these, in which the enigmatic outsider is deliber-
ately or (as in Memento, unintentionally) lying to make the protagonists (and
the audience) feel they are in their shoes, you need to create the story in the
past exactly as if they were an endearing ⊛ in search of a thwarted
dream. you then reveal the truth in your rosebud twist.
however, in films such as Citizen Kane, where the outsider is dead and
therefore cannot reveal what went on in his/her mind, you need to create a
⊛ to investigate them; in fact, as we’ll see, often several protago-
nists, and indeed in some cases, several antagonists too. We’ll come back to
that in a moment, when we turn ‘Cinderella’ into case history flashback.
290 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Why this obsession with protagonists and
antagonists?
The reason we need to understand and be meticulous in our use of this pro-
tagonist/⊣ swap is so that we can stay on the outside of the enigmatic
outsider, thus create suspense, just as we had to in linear mentor ⊣
films. Without a mystery around the enigmatic outsider, the story in the
present is redundant, as in Pay It Forward. All of the material below about
who is and isn’t a ⊛ or ⊣ is about the crucial storytelling
task of keeping the audience emotionally engaged. no ⊖—no protago-
nist versus ⊣—equals no emotional engagement.
The investigator ⊛(s)
except in rare cases, there is always, in both thwarted dream and flashback, an
investigator figure, a person who asks the enigmatic outsider questions or asks
others about the enigmatic outsider (as does the journalist in Citizen Kane).
This is because double ⊚ flashback is always a kind of detective story,
so questions always need to be asked. naturally, the investigator figure is often
a professional investigator whose questions can trigger flashbacks—a police
officer, private eye, journalist, lawyer or the like. in other films (such as Shine
or Fried Green Tomatoes), the character asking questions of the enigmatic out-
sider will not be an investigator by profession, but simply a person who finds
the outside fascinating. The job of the ⊛ is to find out what makes the
enigmatic outsider tick. Their questions or bewilderment trigger the flashbacks.
The rare double ⊚ flashback films that don’t have an investigator
figure are those that have a ⊛ talking in ⊞-over about their past
and present. There’s no need for an investigator figure here because the nar-
rator is already asking the questions and triggering their own flashbacks. The
narrator is already their own detective.
More than one ⊛
here is where things start to get odd. earlier, i spoke about beryl, Sybil and
Gillian all playing the part of protagonists. This is quite common. often there
is not just one investigator ⊛, but several protagonists, often one
after the other, each of whom typifies a different and normal response to the
outsider. We have already come across multiple protagonists in the parallel
⊚ form of that name, where all members of the group are different
versions of the same ⊛.
in double ⊚ flashback the presence of many protagonists helps
make our view of the enigmatic outsider more complex and interesting. This
Flashback: Protagonists, antagonists and the enigmatic outsider 291
is evident very clearly in the ⊨ of Shine, where everyone at moby’s res-
taurant provides a different kind of normal response to david. The waiter is
amused, the waitress is concerned and the owner is disgusted and dismissive.
david’s future wife will represent another point of view, that of someone in
love with david. The Remains of the Day also has serial protagonists, starting
off with mr Stevens’ new employer, followed by the people Stevens meets on
his cross-country drive.
hence, while conventional ⊚ has one ⊛ and many antag-
onists, in double ⊚ flashback, we have one mentor ⊣ and
many protagonists.
Many protagonists means many points of view
if your outsider travels physically, or keeps encountering new people, you
need to structure the ⊗ in the present with a number of protagonists, each
having the goal of fathoming the outsider, each having a different attitude
towards the outsider and each taking the story a little higher up the moun-
tain in the present, the peak of which is the explanation of the mystery.
if you don’t give the characters around the enigmatic outsider a point of
view, a journey and a goal all they can do is watch your outsider while he or
she steals the limelight. We see this in Mr Saturday Night. The comedian sim-
ply behaves as himself while others watch him. if you imagine the film with
the agent and/or the comedian’s brother and/or others as protagonists, each
seeing the comedian from their own point of view, each having him as their
⊣, suddenly the film lifts. Suddenly these characters are actively
involved in a ⊖, observing an enigmatic man, rather than just watching
a comedian whom we know inside out and complaining about him.
Whoever is having a flashback is the ⊛
When a person is having a flashback, by definition we are seeing the world
from their point of view, so they are the ⊛ for the duration of the
flashback. This is easy to pick in thwarted dream because the enigmatic
outsider is always the person having flashbacks, so they are always the
protagonists. in Shine’s flashbacks, david is the ⊛. in Slumdog’s
flashbacks, jamal is the ⊛. in The English Patient’s flashbacks, Count
lazlo is the ⊛.
however, things can get very complicated in case history. in case history,
as we’ve seen, the outsider is always an ⊣, in both past and present
(that is, unless he or she is lying). he or she is always seen from outside.
indeed, there is often no choice about this because frequently the film starts
292 The 21st-Century Screenplay
after the outsider is dead! As you cannot get into the outsider’s head and see
their memories in flashback, to tell their story you usually have to invent
characters who knew them in the past and can be found and interviewed by
the investigator character. This is exactly what happens in Citizen Kane. The
problem is, it can mean the writer has to invent an army of new characters
who are sometimes antagonists, sometimes protagonists. Additionally, the
writer has to take us inside then outside of those characters’ heads with great
frequency. The old rules of conventional ⊚, whereby we stay in one
person’s head, with one world view for the whole film, simply do not apply.
Minor characters can switch from being
antagonists to protagonists
To understand why the switch is necessary and how it happens, think of Citi­
zen Kane. Kane, the enigmatic outsider, is dead, so we have to learn about
him through the flashbacks of people who are being interviewed by our jour-
nalist ⊛. The flashbacks are flashback as illustration—backstory put
on screen—and the interviewees are a banker, Kane’s oldest friend, his sec-
ond wife, his servant and so on; all interesting characters who are antagonists
to our journalist ⊛. now, imagine the film with the interviewees
recounting their memories calmly and objectively, without any personal
feelings about Kane or about being interviewed. The effect would be bor-
ing drama documentary, with the action drearily bouncing between past
and present. it would be the difference between a real court case (witnesses
impassively recounting memories) and a screen court case (lawyer and wit-
nesses in ⊖, lawyer and judge in ⊖, and so on).
To maintain suspense and audience engagement we need ⊖. The
interviewees in Citizen Kane need to be in ⊖ with the journalist in the
present and with Kane in the past. And when the film goes into flashback, it’s
vital that we see Kane through the point of view of whoever is having a flash-
back, as part of that person’s past life, with that person at the centre. There
can’t be just a slab of Kane being interesting with no connection at all to the
person having the flashback: that is documentary, not drama. it would be
akin to the multiple protagonists in the present of, say, Shine simply watching
david helfgott without having any kind of attitude or response to him. Also,
of course, the whole point of the film is to show many accounts of Kane, none
of which ultimately explain either him or rosebud, so the story has to do this.
Consequently, the interviewee having the flashback is the ⊛
during the flashback. however, when the interviewee’s flashback ends and
the action returns to the present, things revert to where they were before.
Flashback: Protagonists, antagonists and the enigmatic outsider 293
now we’re back in the journalist’s shoes. The interviewee ceases to be the
⊛ and becomes, once more, an ⊣ to the journalist pro-
tagonist, the two in a situation of mutual suspicion. This creates interest and
suspense because we, the audience, have actually been in the interviewee’s
mind, whereas our ⊛ has not. When his next interviewee has
a flashback, they too will become the ⊛ for the duration of their
flashback. The result is a series of interesting, often angry, antagonists who
in flashbacks, as protagonists, give us their own very personal point of view.
Thus, they become characters, not mouthpieces to trigger footage of Kane.
‘CInDerellA’ AS CASe hISTOry FlAShbACk
described in the context of Citizen Kane, all of this may seem obvious. how-
ever, in your own case history film the point-of-view swap can easily get out
of hand. The sheer number of extra characters and storylines needed to tell
the case history story can be daunting. That said, you can create wonder-
ful effects with this new army of characters. As an example, let’s imagine an
updated version of ‘Cinderella’ as case history flashback.
in the new version, Cinderella is not dead but, at her wedding, just as she
was at about to marry the prince (the original ‘Cinderella’ story’s ⊝), she
collapsed into catatonia. To find out what has happened to Cinderella, we
need to invent an investigator ⊛ (like the journalist in Kane), so let’s
invent a psychiatrist, dr Susan Smith, a leading expert on Cinderella’s condi-
tion. The triggering crisis of our film will be the ⊝ of Cinderella’s story
(Cinderella collapsing at the altar), which is simultaneously the start of dr
Smith’s story, her disturbance. let’s have it that dr Smith is a guest at the wed-
ding, a friend of the prince, so is actually present when Cinderella collapses.
like all protagonists, dr Susan Smith will need a good action line and rela-
tionship line (think of the unhappy housewife played by Kathy bates in Fried
Green Tomatoes, or the journalist bitsey bloom in The Life of David Gale).
let’s give dr Susan Smith (in whom we must really immerse ourselves, so
she is a genuinely interesting character) a powerful relationship line with, for
example, a troubled marriage and a junkie sister. meanwhile, in the action
line, to find out about Cinderella, dr Smith will need to interview people
who knew Cinderella in the past. These interviewees will be antagonists to
dr Smith, our ⊛. however, when they are actually having flash-
backs to their own past they will be protagonists, describing Cinderella who,
in their past, was an ⊣ (you need to recall this so that you remember
to give them a ⊗ mountain to climb during the flashback—otherwise you
might just have them just standing in the background during the flashback
294 The 21st-Century Screenplay
passively observing Cinderella). inventing interviewees sounds daunting, but
actually opens up wonderful possibilities storywise. for example, let’s make
one of the interviewees buttons. he was in love with Cinderella in the past,
was trying to take her away from her terrible life with her sisters, and was
heartbroken when she was about to marry the prince. We can do interesting
things like making the ugly sisters give differing accounts from buttons, and
making buttons give an unflattering account of the prince—all things to add
to the detective story component.
OrDer OF The FlAShbACkS
Typically, these will tell Cinderella’s past in chronological order. The first
flashback will show Cinderella’s disturbance, the arrival of the invitation,
seen from an interviewee’s point of view. if you follow the Citizen Kane
model, each interviewee’s flashback takes the story forward a step.
A WrITer’S nIghTMAre?
Adding all of these characters may seem a nightmare. however, if you look
at the ⊚ that’s emerging above, you can see that as well as telling Cin-
derella’s story, suddenly you have a series of potentially very powerful stories
in the present that can comment on the story in the past. Suddenly, you have
dr Susan Smith with her bad marriage and junkie sister. you have heartbro-
ken buttons, who perhaps Susan Smith feels might be lying or covering up
for Cinderella in some way, or who might even have caused the catatonia.
you also have the prince, the ugly sisters—and a detective story. Suddenly,
you are getting a film with a genuinely interesting story in the present.
TrIggerIng CrISIS AnD rOSebuD TWIST
We need a rosebud twist to end the story because otherwise it will sim-
ply return to the ⊝ and fizzle out, so think hard. The twist needs to
make the point that humans are not what they seem. it has to be striking but
convincingly real. Whatever twist you give to the ⊥, the ⊥ needs,
of course, to permit ⊡ of the other stories. Perhaps Cinderella col-
lapsed because the prince was wearing the medallion that revealed he was
her twin, removed at birth!
‘CInDerellA’ AS ThWArTeD DreAM FlAShbACk
now that we have told ‘Cinderella’ as case history, let’s retell it as thwarted
dream flashback, which it suits better, as it already contains a dream lost then
found.
Flashback: Protagonists, antagonists and the enigmatic outsider 295
if you were to tell ‘Cinderella’ as thwarted dream flashback, the best trig-
gering crisis would be on or near her second-act turning point, which is when
she runs away from the ball as the clocks strike midnight. We discussed this
as a good starting point earlier, when we were looking at preview flashback.
The story in the present would be a mentor ⊣ story, with Cinderella
as mentor ⊣, and another character as the investigator ⊛,
or perhaps a series of investigator protagonists.
The story would run something like this. The ⊨ ⊕ shows a
beautiful but distraught young woman in rags running away from a palace
at midnight, chased by shouting guards. meanwhile, in the kitchen of a big
hotel, a young chef, joe, our ⊛, is just finishing work (this is joe’s
normality). into the kitchen runs the distraught young woman (this is joe’s
disturbance). She asks for a job, explaining that she has nowhere to go, but
refuses to give details. joe gives her a place to sleep for the night and, on the
following day, gets her a job in the hotel kitchen alongside him, rapidly falling
in love with her. your job now is to construct a story set in the present that
could be entitled ‘joe and the mysterious woman’, writing it from joe’s point
of view, showing how an enigmatic outsider came into his life and caused an
adventure for him.
The first flashback, which happens after the story’s triggering crisis, Cin-
derella’s arrival in the kitchen (second-act turning point in Cinderella’s story
and simultaneously the disturbance in joe’s story), will be to the disturbance
in Cinderella’s story, the invitation to the ball. in flashbacks, the ⊛
will be Cinderella, and the story will be seen from her point of view.
After that, the film will keep jumping between joe’s story in the present
(with joe as ⊛ and Cinderella as ⊣, seen from joe’s point
of view) and Cinderella’s story in the past (with Cinderella as ⊛ and
seen from Cinderella’s point of view). The jumps will occur at high points in
the three-act structure of each story. joe will be a strong character in his own
right, fascinated by the stranger who has come into his life and trying to find
out about her.
As in case history, the flashbacks will run chronologically. When the story
in the past has come full circle and the triggering crisis ⊕ is repeated
(with the audience having their leaning-forward moment), Cinderella will
pursue her dream. Perhaps Cinderella becomes the ⊛ in act three
(like mr Stevens in The Remains of the Day). if she is too emotionally or
physically traumatised by her past to act like a normal person (traumatised
like david in Shine or the Count in The English Patient) she will stay the
⊣ in the present.
296 The 21st-Century Screenplay
What is exciting about thwarted dream ⊚ is the chance it gives
you to create a genuinely interesting story in the present to run alongside
your already interesting story in the past. does joe (broken-hearted) help
Cinderella pursue her dream? does he turn against her? does she fall in love
with him? does he go back to his old girlfriend after all? does she reject both
him and the prince? What about all the other characters around them. is joe
already married? does he live at home with a demanding sick father? is the
prince someone joe actually knows?
joe has the potential to be as original and interesting as the frustrated
woman visitor to the retirement home in Fried Green Tomatoes or the nurse,
hana, in The English Patient. meanwhile, Cinderella in the present will be
withdrawn, but she will have our sympathy because, unlike joe, we know her
story.
And of course there is always the possibility of a completely different
thwarted dream model, a model like that of Shine or The English Patient,
where instead of just one ⊛ in the present, there are several. Perhaps
Cinderella goes on the run after leaving the ball, and our serial protagonists
are people assisting her in her flight.
both Cinderella examples are light-hearted and very simple modern
versions of the story, but the applications to something more serious are
obvious.
Action and relationship lines in past and present
i’ve just been talking about relationship lines in our flashback versions of
‘Cinderella’, so this is a good time to think about relationship lines in double
flashback ⊚ as a whole, and in particular how they relate to action
lines.
you need to understand and make a distinction between your action lines
and relationship lines so that as well as providing the action line in both stor-
ies for your key characters you make sure you include everything necessary
to explain their emotional progression. The story in the past and the story
in the present will both have action and relationship lines. As a general rule,
the story in the present in double ⊚ flashback will be most concerned
with action. The story in the past will be most concerned with relationships—
because double ⊚ flashback films are essentially about motives and
emotions. however, as i stressed, each story will contain an action line and
a relationship line, so you must ⊗ out each and interweave them as you
would in a standard linear film.
Flashback: Protagonists, antagonists and the enigmatic outsider 297
ChAngIng FrOM ⊛ TO ⊣
In DIFFerenT TIMe FrAMeS AFFeCTS ACTIOn AnD
relATIOnShIP lIneS
As we’ve seen, characters in double ⊚ flashback sometimes change from
protagonists to antagonists when the action moves to different time frames.
This can impact on the relationship lines. for example, in the relationship line
in the present of Shine, david helfgott is an ⊣ to Gillian and the other
serial protagonists (who are protagonists in both the action and relationship
lines in the present). however, in the relationship line in the past, david is
⊛ with his father as ⊣. Again, this is important to make sure
david stays an enigmatic outsider in the present, someone seen from the out-
side, a mystery. making the serial protagonists all have their own vivid and
unique response to the enigmatic outsider sharpens the drama because it gives
the protagonists ‘attitude’; it gives them ⊖ and strong emotions.
because we are looking at successful double ⊚ flashback films it is
hard to see the amount of damage mishandled or absent action and relation-
ship lines can create in a script, although Mr Saturday Night demonstrates
how boring a film can become if it simply shows one character (just being
himself, while others watch) in public and domestic relationships across the
years.
The enIgMATIC OuTSIDer APPeArS In bOTh ACTIOn lIne
AnD relATIOnShIP lIne OF The STOrIeS In PAST AnD
PreSenT
unless your enigmatic outsider is dead, he or she will figure in the action
and relationship lines in both the past and the present. When the enigmatic
outsider is dead, in the past they will be the ⊣ to whoever is having
a flashback about them (just as Kane is the ⊣ when his wife, the
⊛ at that moment, relates what happened in their marriage). in
the present, the enigmatic outsider will not figure in the relationship line at
all (as in our dr Smith/Cinderella example, the investigator ⊛ will
have a relationship ⊣, or antagonists, like dr Susan Smith’s husband
and junkie sister).
examples of action and relationship lines in past
and present
ShIne (ACTIOn AnD relATIOnShIP lIneS In The PAST)
Shine is a thwarted dream model. in the past, david helfgott is ⊛
in both the action line and relationship line. The action line is the story of
298 The 21st-Century Screenplay
david’s musical career from his boyhood through to his mental collapse and
placement in a halfway house. in the action line his father is the main antago-
nist, but david’s other teachers and musical mentors are also antagonists.
The relationship line in the past deals with david’s traumatic relationship
with his father (in which musical success starts out being necessary for love,
then becomes its enemy). So david is ⊛ and his father is ⊣.
ShIne (ACTIOn AnD relATIOnShIP lIneS In The PreSenT)
Shine’s action line in the present shows how david gets out of the halfway house
and builds a new musical career. in this time frame, david is always a mentor
⊣ to a series of protagonists (each representing a different but normal
point of view). in the relationship line in the present, the story shows that a
musical career can indeed be compatible with love (this time, via marriage).
however, david is still a mentor ⊣. The ⊛, the person with
a normal point of view, whose shoes we are in, is Gillian, david’s wife (notice
how, if we were seeing the relationship with Gillian from david’s point of view
there would less drama—because Gillian is not unpredictable, she is not a risky
prospective partner—than can be portrayed when david is the ⊣).
The ⊝ of the action line is the concert. The ⊝ of the relationship
line is the ⊕ in the cemetery where david visits his father’s grave with
Gillian, with david now possessed of Gillian’s love and thereby able to com-
bine love with a career as a pianist, the dichotomy that caused his troubles
with his father.
The reMAInS OF The DAy (ACTIOn AnD relATIOnShIP
lIneS In The PAST)
The Remains of the Day is a thwarted dream model. in The Remains of the
Day, the action line in the past is the story of lord darlington’s naive involve-
ment with nazi appeasement, and how this impacts on Stevens and miss
Kenton. Stevens is the ⊛, lord darlington is the ⊣, with
Stevens staying loyal to the traitorous, racist darlington. it vividly demon-
strates Stevens’ inner ⊖ between personal feelings and unquestioning
loyalty to his employer, which he has been brought up to place above all else.
The relationship line in the past concerns the unspoken love between Stevens
(⊛) and miss Kenton (⊣), particularly Stevens’ inability to
open up to love, partly because he has difficulty expressing his feelings, but
largely because he feels that a love liaison between butler and housekeeper
is inappropriate. Stevens’ father is also a relationship-line ⊣, putting
the case for duty over love.
Flashback: Protagonists, antagonists and the enigmatic outsider 299
The reMAInS OF The DAy (ACTIOn AnD relATIOnShIP
lIneS In The PreSenT)
in the present, the action line is Stevens’ cross-country drive to see miss
Kenton (in which he lies about the past and allows himself to be thought of
as a gentleman rather than a butler). The relationship line in the present is his
⊞-over correspondence and final meeting with miss Kenton, which ends
in love unfulfilled.
Stevens is a mentor ⊣ with a series of protagonists (like david in
Shine), starting with his new employer and including all the people he meets
on the way. When his story in the past is told and we have come full circle,
we understand Stevens. At this point, the start of the third act of the story
in the past, Stevens becomes ⊛, with miss Kenton as ⊣.
There is no action line in the present now, except for the couple’s meeting
and parting. This swap from mentor ⊣ in the present to ⊛
in the present at the start of the third act, also happens to jamal in Slumdog
Millionaire.
CITIzen kAne (ACTIOn AnD relATIOnShIP lIneS In The
PAST)
Citizen Kane is a case history model in which the enigmatic outsider is dead
in the present and thus is always an ⊣, in both present and past—we
can never get into his head to see his view of the past or the present. The
action line in the past deals with Kane’s professional career as viewed by those
who knew him and is told in flashbacks. The flashbacks appear in largely self-
contained chunks, each stage of Kane’s life told through the perspective of
one of these people in his life. each of these people is the ⊛ during
their own flashback, in both action and relationship line. for example, the
action line of Kane’s second wife, Susan Alexander Kane, explains how she
had an affair with Kane and he forced her to become an opera singer. her
relationship line is her difficult relationship with Kane.
CITIzen kAne (ACTIOn AnD relATIOnShIP lIneS In The
PreSenT)
in the present, the action line is the ⊛ Thompson’s quest to find
documents and individuals capable of revealing the identity of ‘rosebud’.
Kane is the enigmatic outsider (always an ⊣) and there are a range
of minor antagonists consisting of the people who knew Kane and who are
interviewed by Thompson, telling him their story in flashback. As we’ve seen
(⊮’s worth saying again because it’s so easy to forget), to point up ⊖
300 The 21st-Century Screenplay
and add drama, each of these people is ⊣ until their flashback starts,
when they become protagonists for the duration of the flashback. once the
flashback is over, they become antagonists again. in the present we are always
in Thompson’s shoes.
The relationship line in the present is very thin—in fact, we do not even
see Thompson’s face. The relationship line seems to consist of the responses—
hostile, amused or irritated—of the people Thompson interviews.
The uSuAl SuSPeCTS (ACTIOn AnD relATIOnShIP lIneS In
The PAST)
The Usual Suspects is a case history model with the enigmatic outsider, the
corrupt ex-cop Keaton, recently killed by the mysterious Keyser Soze. The
action line in the past consists of the deeds of Keaton’s gang as related in
flashbacks by a small-time criminal called Verbal Kent. because Verbal is the
person having the flashbacks, he is the ⊛ in both action and rela-
tionship lines in the past. The relationship line is between Verbal and Keaton.
The uSuAl SuSPeCTS (ACTIOn AnD relATIOnShIP lIneS In
The PreSenT)
The action line in the present is the investigation by police and uS customs
of two survivors of the burnt ship, including Verbal Kent. The ⊛ is
Kujan, the customs officer who interviews Verbal, who is an ⊣ in
both the action and the relationship lines in the present. We are in Kujan’s
shoes. As in Citizen Kane, the relationship line in the present consists of the
relationship between investigator and interviewee. There is a similar rela-
tionship between jamal and the police chief in Slumdog Millionaire. There is
another ⊣ in the present, the other survivor of the fire and shoot-
out on the ship. There is a rosebud twist, revealing that Verbal has duped
Kujan both in relationship terms (by fooling Kujan that he is harmless) and
in action line terms (by creating a false trail).
301
Chapter 39
Autobiographical ⊞-over
flashback
i’Ve AlreAdy menTioned ThAT double ⊚ flashback films
which involve a person speaking in ⊞-over about their past and present
don’t need investigator characters because the narrator is the ⊛–
detective, investigating their own past. other significant structural differences
are caused by the particular attitude the ⊞-over ⊛ is bringing to
their past—what precisely they want to reveal about it or explore. This can
radically affect which characters are protagonists and antagonists in the two
storylines.
for example, while we might assume that the speaking ⊛ will
inevitably be the ⊛ in both of the stories, past and present, this
might not be so. for example, in a film about the narrator’s childhood, it
might be that the reason the narrator is telling us about his or her childhood
is to show how their child self was radically different from the adult they
have now become. hence, because the child is a stranger to the adult, when
we flash back to the past, the child will be depicted as a stranger; that is, from
the outside, as an ⊣. in these films, the ⊛ in the past (the
person whose shoes we are inside) won’t be our narrator. it will be an adult
mentor figure from the narrator’s childhood (in Woody Allen films, the adult
version sometimes steps into the flashback to comment disparagingly and
comically on the younger version).
in films where the child is supposed to be a stranger, the child needs to stay
a stranger and a mystery throughout—unless, say, the ⊝ of the story in the
past is whatever caused the child to change (perhaps some shocking experi-
ence) turning into the kind of person their adult self now is. in this case, we
leave both child and adult as protagonists, two versions of the same person.
everything depends, then, on the attitude that the autobiographical narra-
tors bring to their past. There are three attitudes: either they fully understand
their past and are just recounting the facts (as in Milk) or they think they
understand it but, as in the rosebud twist, it turns out that they don’t (as in
Memento) or their past is something which they are still trying to understand
301
302 The 21st-Century Screenplay
(as in The End of the Affair). The films can either be thwarted dream or case
history, or in the case of The End of the Affair, thwarted dream that ends
unhappily. mostly, films like these do end unhappily.
Who is the enigmatic outsider?
All double ⊚ flashbacks are about enigmatic outsiders. in your ⊞-
over double ⊚ flashback film, you need to know which character is
the enigmatic outsider so that you can make sure that your ⊗ keeps them
enigmatic and doesn’t normalise them.
Sometimes the outsider is actually the ⊛ narrator, as in Milk and
Memento, and, to comic effect, Woody Allen in many of his films. Alterna-
tively, the outsider can be someone of enormous emotional importance to
the narrator (often a lover) as in The End of the Affair. in this case the narrator
stays ⊛ in the story of the past, with the enigmatic outsider in their
past as a mentor ⊣, the lover who teaches them something. The End
of the Affair has the enigmatic outsider (Sarah) as ⊣ in the past and
present, because the ⊛ recommences his relationship with Sarah
after they have parted.
Case history or thwarted dream?
it will help you stay on track if you work out whether your film is following
a thwarted dream model in which, in the third act, the narrator will try to
regain the dream that was lost (as in The End of the Affair). or it may be the
flashback as case history approach, in which the point, comic or dramatic, is
the narrator’s scientific observation of their own past—sometimes, as we’ve
said, with their past self as the enigmatic outsider, an ⊣, sometimes
with their past self as a ⊛, affected by the enigmatic outsider who is
an ⊣. Thwarted dream flashback will start at the narrator’s second-
act turning point then jump back to the disturbance. Case history will start
at the ⊝ and jump back to the disturbance.
keeping ⊞-over under control
i suggested earlier that ⊞-over is probably best handled by being inserted
after the film’s structure has been worked out and, indeed, after the first draft
is written. This applies to autobiographical ⊞-over double ⊚ films
too. you will have to be aware that a ⊞-over needs to go in, but don’t start
out with it in case the joy of writing lyrical or punchy prose pulls you off
course. it is always easy to go off course in a double ⊚ flashback film,
and having to handle ⊞-over just adds to the problem.
Autobiographical ⊞-over flashback 303
‘CInDerellA’ AS AuTObIOgrAPhICAl DOuble ⊚
FlAShbACk WITh ⊞-Over
The story would depend on Cinderella’s attitude towards her past and what
she wants to tell us and show us about it. has she lost the prince but is still
trying to find him (thwarted dream)? or is this a case history story in which
she’s sadder and wiser (either because she married him, or because she
didn’t)? is her past self a stranger? A fool?
you would have to think carefully here about the content of the story in
the present. do you need a full three-act story in the present, containing, as
it will have to, a whole extra cast? Preview flashback with ⊞-over (starting
either at Cinderella’s second-act turning point or the ⊝) might be the
more appropriate form.
Chapter 40
Planning a double ⊚
flashback film
firST of All, double-CheCK that you need double ⊚. Con-
sider other flashback forms. if you opt for double ⊚ flashback, work
out which sort you need: thwarted dream, case history, or one of these but
with an autobiographical ⊞-over. double ⊚ flashback films are
always about an enigmatic outsider and, to maintain suspense, they need
a ‘detective story’ element, whereby a person or persons seek to find out
the mystery of the past (sometimes their own). Work out the message of
your film, remembering that thwarted dream and case history take differ-
ent views of human nature, and autobiographical ⊞-over can take either
stance. The list (currently accurate, but that could change) below should
give you clues.
⊗ content of double ⊚ flashback
1 Particularly in thwarted dream, the story in the past is usually an
epic story about relationships and great passion, often lost love.
2 double ⊚ flashback films are always about an enigmatic
outsider. except in rare cases, this person is a mentor ⊣ at
least in the present and sometimes also in the past.
3 in case history, the enigmatic outsider is usually dead (like Kane),
mentally damaged (like leonard in Memento) or lying. This is a
useful tip: if you are planning a flashback film about an enigmatic
outsider who is dead, mentally incapacitated or turns out at the end
to be lying, you have to use case history.
4 Case history is a good form to use if you are writing the biography
of a genius or larger-than-life person (as in Milk and Amadeus)
because it permits the person concerned to be viewed only as an
⊣, from the outside through others, hence to keep their
mystery and status and not be trivialised. Shakespeare in Love did
the opposite, playing on the trivialising effect of making a genius an
ordinary person, to great comic effect.
304
Planning a double ⊚ flashback film 305
5 The enigmatic outsider in thwarted dream has a lost or stolen
dream, which they suddenly decide to recapture. The film tells how
the dream began and was lost and charts their progress to regain it.
usually, they do regain the dream.
6 As a rule of thumb, if the enigmatic outsider is supposed to be a
normal, likeable person damaged by life, use flashback as thwarted
dream, for which the motto is: ‘there but for the grace of God go i’.
if the outsider is supposed to be an essentially unknowable,
unpredictable person, or even evil, use case history, where the
motto is: ‘human beings are mysterious, unpredictable and more
than the sum total of their past’. Case history is always used if the
audience is supposed to disapprove of the outsider. The ⊛
learns a cautionary lesson from these films—in fact we could
describe case history as ‘cautionary tale’, because the audience is
initially duped along with the investigator.
7 in autobiographical ⊞-over double ⊚ flashback, the
enigmatic outsider is usually the person the speaker is most
concerned with, often a lost lover, but sometimes a former self.
8 usually the central tension of the film concerns a ⊖ between
the enigmatic outsider’s personal life or well-being, and their
professional duties; often it is love versus duty.
9 many double ⊚ flashback films, particularly thwarted
dream versions, insert further tension into their endings by adding
‘a ticking clock’; that is, pressure of time to solve the problems of
either the investigator ⊛ or the outsider trying to achieve
the thwarted dream.
10 in thwarted dream, the person having the flashbacks is the
enigmatic outsider. in case history, usually the flashbacks are had
by a person or persons who have known the outsider. if the outsider
has the flashbacks, often they are not true. Milk is an exception.
11 in thwarted dream, flashbacks explain the outsider and create
audience empathy. in case history, flashbacks give a documentary
reality to the action, distancing the audience. They make the
audience a scientific observer and, when the rosebud twist
happens, make them even more mystified by the story than when
they started, sometimes appalled.
12 Case history ends with a rosebud twist (to avoid an anticlimax).
304
306 The 21st-Century Screenplay
how to structure a double ⊚ flashback
Plan each story separately, constructing a tight three-act chronological
model in each (even though the story in the present may be truncated),
complete with action line and relationship line. both stories will be
strengthened by good strong first-act turning points—genuine surprises
that create the particular obstacle that drives the rest of the story—as
places to boost their interest and as jumping-off points. for example, in
Shine, in the story in the present, the first-act turning point is the moment
when david, apparently just a crazy derelict, sits down at the piano in the
restaurant and plays brilliantly. it is a surprise that creates the obstacle
that drives the rest of the story in the present, which is ‘kindly people help
david helfgott to become a concert pianist again’. if you tried to make the
first-act turning point surprise be that david returned to the restaurant
and fell and broke his leg before entering, that would definitely be a sur-
prise, ⊮’s not a surprise that would further the story of ‘kindly people
help david helfgott become a concert pianist’ (unless you somehow made
the broken leg lead to david revealing he was a concert pianist). it would
simply be an incident, and would certainly not give you enough story to fill
your second and third acts.
When you have mapped out your two stories, start to think about inter-
weaving, using the guidelines in this book. Think of your flashback film as
two circles, one inside the other, linked at one ⊕—the triggering crisis—
which has a different function in each story.
it helps when you are creating the plots to think of the story in the present
as the film’s action line and the story in the past (dealing, as it does, with
the outsider’s relationships) as the film’s relationship line. This is because it
reminds you of what sort of ⊗ material you need to have in the present.
Points to remember about writing double
⊚ flashback
1 The triggering crisis in thwarted dream is the second-act turning
point of the story in the past. in case history, it is the ⊝. in
both, it is usually the disturbance of the story in the present.
2 jump between past and present at high dramatic points in each
story. in the ⊪ of the story in the past, your dramatic
high points, your jumping-off points, will be the second-act
complications and twists and turns.
3 The ⊗ in the present has to permit the story in the past to be told.
This is very similar to the way, in conventional ⊚, the action
Planning a double ⊚ flashback film 307
line permits the relationship line to happen—as in The African
Queen, where the journey down the river (action line) is the reason
the two characters fall in love (relationship line). your story in the
present must put the outsider into a situation where their story can
be told.
4 except in autobiographical ⊞-over flashback, the story in the
present is not the enigmatic outsider’s story; it is the story of a person
who has to deal with the enigmatic outsider.
5 in autobiographical ⊞-over forms, the narrator ⊛ can
be the enigmatic outsider, and the story can be their story.
6 flashbacks always occur in chronological order. Choose the
content of each flashback very carefully so that it takes the story
in the past forward at least one ⊜ in a dynamic way. note how,
in Slumdog Millionaire, the order in which the questions are
asked permits the flashbacks to show jamal’s life in chronological
order. none of the questions he is asked require flashbacks to
jump around in his life. flashbacks unfolding chronologically are
pleasing, providing momentum towards the ⊝.
7 The screen time of double ⊚ flashback films is a potential
problem because they contain at least two stories in one film. This
means focused and economic plotting or the film will be much too
long. The story in the past is traditionally much longer and more
important than the story in the present, although this is changing.
films such as The End of the Affair and The Sweet Hereafter have
very complex stories in the present, and this is probably the way of
things to come. Consider truncation.
8 The story in the present is a strong (albeit often truncated)
‘detective story’ in the present, exploring the motives in the past of
the enigmatic outsider.
9 The story in the present (and also sometimes the story in the
past) usually involves a hunt, quest or journey (physical and/or
metaphorical). its structural role is to permit an investigation or
revisiting of the traumatic past. Sometimes the person on the quest
is the enigmatic outsider, usually in pursuit of a thwarted dream.
Sometimes the person on the quest is the investigator figure (or
figures), and the quest involves trying to understand the outsider.
The hunt or quest is a vital and energising component of the form.
in some films it takes the place of the ‘great battle’ that constitutes
the third act. The End of the Affair is interesting in that while its
308 The 21st-Century Screenplay
⊛ is not an investigator, he actually hires an investigator
to pursue the enigmatic outsider (Sarah). it also, classically,
involves a hunt or quest in its story set in the present.
10 Thwarted dream might require two climaxes, in the same way
that we’ve seen in inner story/outer story films and for much the
same reasons. you may need to resolve the story in the past (that
is, the pursuit of the dream) in one ⊕, and the story in the
present (the investigator ⊛’s dealings with the outsider
⊣) later, in another. Sometimes both can be resolved in the
same ⊕. This happens in Slumdog Millionaire, in which the past
and present stories are resolved in one dramatic ⊟. jamal
answers the final question on Who Wants to be a Millionaire? as he
and latika affirm their love. by contrast, in Shine, david helfgott’s
dream to become a concert pianist is resolved in one ⊕ while
his relationship with his future wife is resolved in another.
11 To add to the documentary feel that many case history films seek
to create—the sense that we are watching a true story—datelines
are often used throughout, superimposed on screen in imitation of
news footage.
12 Successful double ⊚ films often start with the sudden
appearance of an enigmatic outsider, usually at a moment of
serious crisis or danger in their lives, often (particularly in thwarted
dream) figuratively or physically knocking on a door wanting to
be let back into society—like david helfgott at the restaurant in
Shine. Alternatively, the outsider will appear and people will try
to find out who he or she is. This happens in The English Patient
(nobody knows who he is), and in The Remains of the Day, where
the people the butler meets on his journey are intrigued by him,
and persistently ask him questions. explaining how the enigmatic
outsider came to be in this situation makes up the greater part of
the film—it is what is explained in the flashbacks.
13 Alternatively, to increase the audience’s interest in your investigator
⊛, you could open the film on them, introducing
them first. in your audience’s eyes, this will make the film your
⊛’s story, which will give the character extra strength to
stand up to the limelight-stealing enigmatic outsider. you can see
this effect in Fried Green Tomatoes (where the film feels like the
housewife’s story) and The Life of David Gale (which feels like the
journalist’s story).
Planning a double ⊚ flashback film 309
Tip and reminders about protagonists and
antagonists
AnyOne hAvIng FlAShbACkS IS A ⊛
in all forms of flashback ⊚, anyone having a flashback is a ⊛
for the duration of the flashback. We see the world from their point of view.
MAny PrOTAgOnISTS, One MenTOr ⊣
Conventional linear films have one ⊛ and many antagonists. dou-
ble ⊚ flashback has many protagonists and one mentor ⊣.
There can also be minor antagonists. Also, characters can switch from being
antagonists to protagonists and vice versa (see above). The point of think-
ing in terms of switching between protagonists and antagonists is to create
strong characters, good character ⊖ and strong stories. you need these
badly because these films have to be detective stories (to justify the story in
the present), and so you have to maintain suspense and the possibility of
many outcomes.
PrOTAgOnISTS In The PreSenT ASk queSTIOnS
double ⊚ flashback always involves people in the present who ask
questions. even autobiographical ⊞-over flashbacks involve a questioner,
the narrator themselves. These people are always protagonists because they
represent the normal point of view, asking the questions a normal person
would ask. frequently the question-asking ⊛ is an official inves-
tigator such as a journalist, police officer or lawyer. Sometimes there is a
⊟ of protagonists. Thwarted dream has at least one and often more
investigator protagonists (for example, the people who help david helfgott).
The person they question (and often help) is always the enigmatic outsider.
Sometimes, as in Memento, the question-asking ⊛ turns out in the
end to be abnormal or duplicitous.
CASe hISTOry uSuAlly hAS Only One InveSTIgATOr
⊛
The story in the present in case history frequently consists simply of actual
interview situations. often large slabs of the story happen in investigation
rooms. often there is only one investigator ⊛. This usually hap-
pens if the mentor ⊣ is alive (as in The Life of David Gale). if the
⊛ is dead, many people are usually questioned about the dead
enigmatic outsider. in The Sweet Hereafter, people are questioned about
someone who has returned from the dead, the sole survivor of the accident.
310 The 21st-Century Screenplay
in autobiographical ⊞-over double ⊚ flashback the ⊛ is
the person asking questions, so there is no need for an extra investigator pro-
tagonist. Slumdog Millionaire has extensive interview room scenes, although
it is a thwarted dream version of case history.
The MenTOr ⊣ IS The PerSOn CAuSIng
TrOuble
in the present, the mentor ⊣ (even when dead) is the person caus-
ing trouble to the ⊛. in the relationship line they cause trouble
by not answering questions, or by lying, or being enigmatic. in the action
line, they are the person who has made the ⊛ take their present
course of action. often, they drag the ⊛ on a crazy journey, and
the ⊛ may protect them or even fall in love with them (as Gillian
does with david in Shine). if you are using a static interview situation, be
sure to insert ⊖ or a mentor ⊣ throwing out some kind of
challenge, otherwise it will rapidly become boring. ⊖ need not be
physical.
AnTAgOnISTS In ACTIOn AnD relATIOnShIP lIneS
in thwarted dream, the ⊣ in both the action and relationship lines in
the present is usually the enigmatic outsider, although sometimes this person
returns again to being ⊛ in the final battle to win. The question to
ask is, ‘Whose shoes do i want the audience to be in at various points of the
film?’ in films like Remains of the Day and Slumdog Millionaire it is useful to
keep the enigmatic outsider as an ⊣ in the present until, along with
the film’s protagonists, we know their story. At that point (usually the return
of the triggering crisis), turn them into protagonists, so we are in their shoes
for the exciting third act. in Slumdog Millionaire, we want to be in jamal’s
shoes for the third-act battle-to-win, not the shoes of the police chief.
MInOr AnTAgOnISTS
both case history and thwarted dream may have minor antagonists in the
action line in the present. in thwarted dream the ⊣ and ⊛
will join forces against these minor antagonists (in Shine, the minor antago-
nists are the people who believe david is crazy). Autobiographical ⊞-over
double ⊚ is different because the person asking questions is the pro-
tagonist, so they are the ones creating trouble for themselves.
Planning a double ⊚ flashback film 311
The story in the present is usually the hardest to
write
i have found in working with writers on double ⊚ flashback scripts
that the most common problem is the story in the present. This is not sur-
prising. When you are writing a film specifically to tell the past life of a
fascinating enigmatic outsider, it requires great concentration to put that
character aside and throw yourself into inventing and seeing the action
through the eyes of a new, and inherently less dynamic, investigator pro-
tagonist to whom you give a mystery to solve and, preferably, a good strong
story of their own. but you have to do this to make your film work—just as
in mentor ⊣ films you have to invent a less interesting ⊛
to properly create the enigmatic, unpredictable wild-card character who is
the reason you are writing your film.
As i’ve shown above in examples of ‘Cinderella’ retold as case history and
thwarted dream flashback, the story in the present needs a lot of work. it
requires new characters (often several), a new point of view and, crucially, it
needs to be a detective story in which the audience, with or in advance of the
investigator ⊛, pieces together clues about the mysterious past of
the enigmatic outsider.
it must have mystery and threat. if it doesn’t, your film will go around in
circles until the action returns to the past, with characters in the present just
doing ‘business’.
if your character is static, there must be a threat, something at stake. for
example, the story in the present in Milk is just harvey milk sitting in his
kitchen dictating a memoir, but the scenes are riveting because we know he
is going to be assassinated and he says that he is dictating his memoir specifi-
cally in case this happens. Similarly, while Salieri in Amadeus sits in a chair
for most of his story, he has just tried to commit suicide and is wracked with
guilt and religious doubt as he passionately tells his story.
Keep reminding yourself to pump up the film’s detective-story-of-the
human-heart qualities in the story of the present. remind yourself too that
in most double ⊚ films, for most if not all of the time, the story in the
present is not the enigmatic outsider’s story, it is the story of whoever has to
deal with the enigmatic outsider (as in Fried Green Tomatoes and The Life of
David Gale). This can be very hard to do.
That said, successful double ⊚ flashback films show just how
powerful the story in the present can be, and how it can enhance—perhaps
make—a successful film. if you plan your double ⊚ flashback film
carefully you can get wonderful results with the story in the present. for
312 The 21st-Century Screenplay
example, i often ask writers i am mentoring to construct, as an exercise,
a plan for a case history double ⊚ flashback film using their own
modern-day version of ‘jack and the beanstalk’, ⊨ on jack in a coma
after falling from the beanstalk. They inevitably return with wonderful,
complex stories in the present that involve jack’s difficult relationship with
the Giant’s wife (whom, in the story, jack of course betrayed), or jack’s
mother, along with a variety of personal and professional dilemmas for
their investigator, who is invariably some strong and interesting character
in their own right.
double ⊚ flashback stories can give you not just your powerful
story in the past, but fine, thought-provoking stories in the present that pass
comment upon the story in the past. but the story in the present will prob-
ably be the hardest thing for you to write.
313
Chapter 41
Case studies of flashback films:
hybrids and oddities
The Constant gardener: Thwarted dream with
extended battle to win
The Constant Gardener is an odd form of thwarted dream flashback. like
Shine, it opens on the second-act turning point of one story, which is simul-
taneously the disturbance of the other story. What’s different about it is that
the third-act battle to win in the story in the past (as in Shine, simultaneously
the story in the present), is very long—twelve chapters out of twenty. The
triggering crisis returns much earlier than in normal thwarted dream flash-
back, with the flashback to the story in the past concluded before the ⊦
of the film’s screen time. of course, in normal thwarted flashback films, the
flashbacks are not concluded until about three-quarters or more of the film
is over.
The story in the past is the story of justin and Tessa from their meet-
ing through to his suicide at the end of the film. We can call this ‘justin
and Tessa’s love story’. The second story we could call ‘justin investigates’.
This runs from Tessa’s death to just after justin’s death, when the villains are
brought to justice. The triggering crisis, Tessa’s death, which opens the film, is
thus (in classic thwarted dream flashback style) the second-act turning point
in the story in the past and the disturbance of the story in the present.
it resembles the consecutive stories film Amores Perros, which also starts
in its chronological ⊦.
Why ISn’T There An AnTIClIMAx?
Why isn’t there an anticlimax when Tessa’s story is wound up mid-film?
Partly it’s because the detective story about the drug company cover-up is
interesting, but probably the main reason is because justin is not an objective
outsider. he isn’t, for example, a journalist or police officer just doing his job.
he is a heartbroken husband trying to find out not just why and how his wife
died, but whether she was unfaithful to him, which, to add to the emotional
impact, initially seems highly likely. Thus, what’s creating the suspense of the
313
314 The 21st-Century Screenplay
film is not primarily the drug cover-up story, it is the emotional jeopardy of
the loving, faithful husband throughout (although of course, by the end of
the film, justin is placed in the ultimate physical jeopardy and is murdered).
The film, as many people have said, is very much a love story.
The lesson here is that a powerful love story quest, technically a relation-
ship line, can energise a detective story even to the degree of preventing a
film stopping in its tracks when a preview ⊕ returns at what is usually the
least exciting of all the dramatic high points in a story, the disturbance. The
film is an interesting reversal of the normal pattern whereby the action line
pulls the relationship line along. in The Constant Gardener, the relationship
line shoves the action line along, as we will justin to find out how Tessa died.
it permits the story to be much more than a detective story.
Thus, the points to take away from The Constant Gardener are that if you
want to conclude your story in the past early, be sure there is enough emo-
tional punch in the relationship line to pull your story forward; and that
an emotionally involved investigator, particularly one with a strong vested
personal interest in the mystery, adds a powerful dynamism to the ⊗. So, if
you’re wondering how to energise a double ⊚ detective story about an
enigmatic outsider in the past, consider making the investigator ⊛
personally involved with the outsider, turning the film into some kind of love
story (not necessarily between husband and wife, it could be between broth-
ers or parent and child).
notice too the use of new flashbacks coming later in the film to poig-
nantly expand information that we’ve already been given in early flashbacks.
When justin returns to the flat where he and Tessa first made love, the film
cuts between heartbroken justin in the present, a repeat of the flashback
we’ve already seen, followed by a new flashback set in the same time period.
notice too that the actual disturbance ⊕ of the story in the present, justin
being told by Sandy that Tessa is dead, does not reappear. it’s not necessary,
and would simply slow the film down. This suggests that we need to think
carefully whether we actually need the return of the actual disturbance ⊕
in the present. Cinema Paradiso, using preview flashback, doesn’t have it
returning either.
The Sweet hereafter
The Sweet Hereafter is another double ⊚ flashback film with an inter-
esting use of the disturbance, although ‘double ⊚’ is not the right term
since the film has eleven powerful stories in nine different time frames. Apart
from the extraordinary achievement of running so many moving stories
Case studies of flashback films: hybrids and oddities 315
concurrently without audience confusion or loss of pace, it is particularly
clever in its use of incomplete or truncated stories—one-act structures or
two-act structures—to achieve effects that one would think possible only
through a complete ⊚. it can teach us a lot and provide a lot of new
tools.
The film concerns a lawyer attempting to persuade a small town it should
sue for the tragic loss of its children in a school bus accident. The easiest
way to think of The Sweet Hereafter is to imagine it as two flashback narra-
tive films in one. it is as if the journalist ⊛ in Citizen Kane were to
have his own flashback story and flashforward story happening during and
after his investigation of Kane’s life story. The Sweet Hereafter incorporates a
number of different sorts of flashbacks. in the course of jumping between its
many stories it uses:
•
autobiographical ⊞-over flashback and flashforward (where a
⊛, the lawyer, describes in ⊞-over his experiences and
deepening disillusionment as the father of a junkie)
•
flashback as case history (the story of a young girl who is the survivor
of the bus crash, an enigmatic outsider)
•
flashbacks as illustration (in the evidence of the various parents of
the dead children)
WhAT IS STAnDArD AbOuT The SWeeT hereAFTer?
The movement of each story is still generally chronological, and the story in
the present moves strictly chronologically. The film also displays many of the
standard features of double ⊚ flashback. for example:
•
it involves a detective story of the human heart (several, actually).
•
its main focus is to reveal what, in the past, caused the problems of
the present.
•
it includes a typical investigator ⊛, the lawyer whose job it
is to ask questions about the past.
•
it opens at a triggering crisis (just after the bus crash) and comes full
circle to end with an ironic twist (the sole survivor lying in order to
sabotage the compensation suit) just after the story of the bus crash
has reached its ⊝.
WhAT IS ODD AbOuT The SWeeT hereAFTer?
The Sweet Hereafter departs significantly from the standard pattern of double
⊚ flashback, but works extremely well. it therefore has exciting poten-
tial as a template. its differences are:
316 The 21st-Century Screenplay
•
it has as its triggering crisis the disturbance of the story in the past.
it opens with the lawyer arriving in town immediately after the bus
crash. however, the crash is not, as we might expect, a second-act
turning point or a ⊝. instead, the crash is the disturbance of the
main story in the past. i deem the crash the disturbance because,
using my rule of thumb whereby we describe a film’s ⊗ structure
by what we can say that ⊗ is ‘about’, we have to say that The Sweet
Hereafter is not about the crash per se, it is about the after-effects
of the crash on the community. Thus, the film starts just after the
disturbance in the past, which means that the film’s triggering crisis is
the disturbance of the story in the past.
•
The actual disturbance ⊕—the bus crashing through the ice—
does not open the film and is actually not seen in detail at all. in
other words, the triggering crisis is described through ⊘ but
not actually seen until much later in the film; in fact, not until the
story of the past has been told full circle. Why does this work? After
all, the point of a triggering crisis ⊕ is to provide a film with a
strong hook. how can a flashback film operate with such a quiet
⊨? one possible answer is that the idea of a bus full of children
crashing through ice to their deaths in a lake is strong enough to hold
our attention, so we don’t need a visual to open the film. Another
possible answer is that the harrowing story of the lawyer’s dealings
with his junkie daughter (one of the most powerful things in a very
powerful film) starts in the ⊨ ⊕. Also, that ⊕, set inside
a car stuck in a car wash, opens with a view through the windshield
of the car wash’s brushes that look eerily like waterweed and for a
moment suggests that the vehicle is at the bottom of a lake.
•
A number of the stories show the town’s pre-crash normality (using
flashback as illustration) until the moment of the crash changed it all.
once the story has gone full circle and the bus crash has been shown
on screen, the town’s story reverts to the present and events leading
up to the main witness giving her statement.
•
it uses truncation in a very interesting way. All of the stories about
the parents of the children who died in the crash are one-act stories.
in these stories, the normality is life before the bus crash, the
disturbance is the bus crash itself and the first-act turning point, the
surprise ⊥ of the one-act story, is an unexpected response by the
parents to the bus crash, a thought-provoking surprise.
•
Another example of truncation is that the lawyer mitchell’s story has no
Case studies of flashback films: hybrids and oddities 317
second or third act; that is, the story of mitchell and his junkie daughter
has no second or third act. it jumps straight from the first-act turning
point (the revelation that the daughter has AidS) to the second-act
turning point, where we find out that the daughter is unredeemed and
mitchell admits that his love for her is permanently destroyed by her
addiction, and ends there. We do not see the great battle to win the
dream, in this case reconciliation. The same phenomenon of a missing
third act and ⊝ appears in tandem ⊚ films City of Hope
and Crimes and Misdemeanors. Truncation is an exciting phenomenon
we shall come across increasingly in the more complicated forms of
parallel ⊚, particularly fractured tandem, where it appears in
films such as 21 Grams and The Hours.
•
The film’s central story seems to be thwarted dream double ⊚
flashback, ⊮ turns into case history at the end. it initially feels
as if both the action line in the present—the consequences of a
bus crash in which most of the local children are killed—and the
relationship line concerning mitchell and his junkie daughter will be
examples of flashback as thwarted dream, with the thwarted dream
being ‘lost children redeemed’. however, in both cases it turns out
to be flashback as case history. nicole, the sole survivor of the crash,
deliberately sabotages the court case and thus rejects the dream, in
the process revealing a shocking family secret, and the film ends with
a case history moral—people are unknowable. in the story about
the lawyer and his junkie daughter, the revelation that the daughter
was not redeemed and that Stevens cannot love her turns what we
thought would be thwarted dream into case history: the ever-patient
father, the father who saved his infant child’s life, now hates her.
•
mitchell, the investigator ⊛, actually has several stories.
he has two action-line stories in the present (trying to arrange
a class action from the townsfolk generally, and from the sole
survivor in particular), a relationship-line story in the present (his
junkie daughter harassing him by phone), a flashback story in the
distant past (when his daughter was a toddler) and a flashforward
story, set two years hence, when he is visiting his dying daughter. in
this, he plays a typical enigmatic outsider being asked questions by a
⊛ (Allison, his daughter’s school friend) with his answers,
shown in flashbacks, explaining his bitterness and dark wisdom.
The flashback ⊚ concerning the lawyer’s relationship with
Zoe, his junkie daughter, is structurally interesting because it
318 The 21st-Century Screenplay
does not have a triggering crisis. This is probably wise because the
triggering crisis ⊕ would be Zoe actually announcing that she
has AidS. Since the film already has one ⊨ triggering crisis
that is harrowing (the bus crash), an AidS announcement would
probably be over the top.
•
What The Sweet Hereafter shows us is that many time frames and
many stories are possible, particularly using truncation. if it has
enough impact, a disturbance can act as a triggering crisis, ⊮
needs enormous impact.
The life of David gale: Tricks to build up the
story in the present
The Life of David Gale is interesting because while in most aspects it is copy-
book case history—complete with a journalist investigator (bitsey bloom),
detective story of human motives, enigmatic outsider/mentor ⊣
close to death (david Gale), and a rosebud twist—it also uses a clever struc-
tural trick to increase the impact of the story in the present, something we
always have to work hard to do. it opens in the story of the present, skewing
the film so that the ⊛ in the present has more dominance, making
the story very much a detective story.
The STruCTure OF bITSey’S STOry
1 Disturbance: the invitation to interview Gale, an anti-capital
punishment activist about to be executed in an open-and-shut case of
rape and murder of a fellow-activist
2 First-act turning point: Gale’s probable innocence
3 ⊪: interviewing Gale, investigating, finding a mysterious
videotape
4 Second-act turning point: bitsey being too late for Gale’s execution
5 ⊝ (with rosebud twist): bitsey finds out how precisely Gale
duped her, and why
The STruCTure OF gAle’S STOry
1 Disturbance: Gale is framed for rape, sacked and deserted by his wife
and child
2 First-act turning point: Gale’s fellow activist, Constance, who has
cancer, asks him to have sex with her (and, as we later discover,
hatches a plan with him to fool the legal system into executing him
for her murder)
Case studies of flashback films: hybrids and oddities 319
3 Second-act turning point: he is about to be executed for Constance’s
murder, which he did not commit
4 ⊝: he is executed
⊨ On bITSey, nOT gAle
Although the film opens, as is standard, on the ⊝ of Gale’s story (just
before he is to be executed), it does not open on Gale. it opens on the protago-
nist in the present, journalist bitsey bloom. it opens on bitsey’s second-act
turning point, as she abandons her broken-down car and runs frantically
towards town in a bid to save Gale’s life because she has proof of his innocence.
The problem that this structure is solving is that Gale will easily steal the
limelight, particularly as the ⊗ demands that bitsey spends a lot of time
just sitting listening to him in the three interviews she is permitted with him
(note the triplication). We need to put bitsey in the foreground, so ⊨
the film on her quickly establishes her very firmly as the ⊛ in the
present and keeps Gale enigmatic, as he must be.
notice that the story in the present contains a time-honoured screen-
writer’s trick: the ⊛’s companion (here, a trainee journalist) who
can feed the ⊛ lines and to whom she can articulate in ⊘ her
theories (this time about the framing of Gale). This sidekick is interestingly
characterised, and ⊖ has been inserted between him and bitsey about
his pushiness and his smoking habit, which adds energy.
After the ⊨ ⊕ with bitsey’s car breakdown and her frantic run-
ning, the film cuts back on cue to the disturbance—but not the disturbance
in Gale’s story, as would be normal, but the disturbance in the story of the
present, bitsey’s story. This is bitsey being invited by Gale’s lawyer to have
three interviews with Gale as he waits on death row.
bitsey’s story is a classic double ⊚ detective story of the motives of
the human heart, with bitsey gradually starting to believe Gale was framed
for rape and murder, and gradually getting the proof just before she misses
saving him. The rosebud twist, coming right on cue after Gale’s death, is that
Gale managed to fool bitsey.
bitsey’s story is a short, tight three-act structure. The first interview flashes
back, in classic style, to the disturbance of the story in the past ( david’s
story) and concludes on the first-act turning point before jumping back to
the present. each flashback tells more of the story, with Gale finally leaving
bitsey only a day to prove his innocence, giving her a strong third-act battle
to win in the story set in the present.
The slight structural differences in The Life of David Gale are very useful
320 The 21st-Century Screenplay
to remember for the way they push bitsey, the ⊛ who might have
become simply a listener for most of the time, to centre stage.
Memento: establishing the ground rules,
differentiating the storylines
Memento is a fascinating, structurally complex flashback film about leonard,
a man who suffers from short-term memory loss, trying to find and kill the
man who murdered his wife and gave him the blow to the head that lost him
his memory. The film is deliberately constructed so as to reproduce leonard’s
struggle to work out where he is in his hunt, and follows him as he pursues it
to its end. When the film concludes, a number of threads are left tantalisingly
and pleasingly untied because we are unsure how much of the film’s ⊗ was
confabulated by leonard’s damaged and grief-stricken mind.
People routinely comment that while Memento is a very interesting film,
structurally it is an oddity, with its one-step-forward, two-steps-back ⊕
structure too idiosyncratic, too closely entwined with its subject matter to be
used in other films. however, as we’ll see later, the consecutive stories film
City of God uses a similar device—starting in the ⊦ of a ⊟ and
returning to the start of the story that caused the ⊟, to show how it
all began. for example, to tell us how drug dealers important to the story
came to be living in an apartment, it first shows us the drug dealers, then
flashes back to the original owner before returning again to the present. As
in Memento, it is a dynamic, energising device.
The PlOTS
Memento jumps between four plots. The main action line (which deals with
leonard trying to hunt down his wife’s murderer and finally killing Teddy)
involves leonard’s ⊞ in ⊞-over, is shown in colour and runs in a com-
plex backwards motion (i’ll explain precisely how in a moment). meanwhile,
the relationship line, all shown in black and white, contains three stories,
two using flashbacks. The ‘present’ of this black and white relationship line
consists of a series of scenes set in a motel, with leonard talking on the tele-
phone about his past to an unidentified caller. in chronological terms, this
section of the relationship line actually happens and concludes before the
start of the action line. The second story, a disjointed flashback story, depicts
how leonard lost his memory after being massively injured when he went to
the defence of his wife, who was murdered by two intruders. The third story,
another flashback story, told chronologically, is accompanied by a ⊞-over
by leonard, and concerns Sammy jankis, a man with short-term memory
Case studies of flashback films: hybrids and oddities 321
loss that leonard had to deal with when he was an insurance investigator.
There are other subliminal flashbacks that are flashback as illustration, show-
ing slightly different versions of the past.
lIFe-ChAngIng InCIDenT FlAShbACk
The wife’s life and death is rendered as a life-changing incident flashback
that we revisit a number of times until, right at the end, after the murder of
Teddy, we are given a ⊕ which may mean that leonard has confabulated
the facts of her death, combining her story with Sammy’s story.
MeMenTO AnD CASe hISTOry
While the structure of the film is complicated, involving a number of stor-
ies (the main one told backwards with a mind-spinning rewind pattern),
Memento is actually a version of autobiographical case history flashback
(using ⊞-over), with the addition of one life-changing incident flashback,
flashback as illustration and, in Sammy jankis’ story, a complete case history
flashback story (hence, case history within case history) featuring the secret
mysteries of leonard’s consciousness, with leonard as an enigmatic outsider
in the present and Sammy an enigmatic outsider in the past, with leonard
prior to his accident as a normal man, a standard ⊛.
Memento is definitely a detective story of the human heart. it involves an
enigmatic outsider who, while not dead, is massively and irreparably changed. it
employs the standard double ⊚ case history frame, starting at the story’s
⊝ and, when the ⊨ ⊕ returns at the end of the film, employs
the ironic twist typical of case history flashback. The difference is that there are
actually multiple twists in Memento, leaving the ⊥ intriguingly ambiguous
(note, incidentally, how the audience loves the ambiguity of the ⊥).
The rosebud twist is that leonard has already killed his wife’s murderer—
although possibly leonard might have combined his memories of Sammy jankis
with his own, thus it might be that leonard’s wife did not die during a robbery,
but leonard himself was the person who killed her, by overdosing her with insu-
lin. Certainly, leonard has killed people and now is being used by the crooked
policeman Teddy to kill off people Teddy wants removed. We discover that the
drug dealer leonard killed at the start of the film was one of these people.
Clever exPOSITIOn TeChnIqueS
it would have very easy for Memento to be confusing instead of intriguing.
To prevent this, the film cleverly establishes its internal rules within seconds
of starting.
322 The 21st-Century Screenplay
eSTAblIShIng The FIlM’S grOunD ruleS
The first thing Memento explains, dynamically, is that part of it is going
to be told backwards. This is done in the ⊨ ⊕ (which is also the
film’s ⊝, just prior to the rosebud twist) by the film literally running in
reverse. We open at the ⊕ of a murder, with someone holding a Polar-
oid photograph of a bloody corpse. The photograph fades and returns into
the camera, the gun thrown down by the killer jumps back into his hands,
and so on. We are instantly intrigued, but also—and crucially—we instantly
know the rules.
When we cut to the first motel ⊕, we instantly know that we are in
another story because the action is in black and white. The ⊞-over clev-
erly provides exposition at the same time as driving the story forward in
the present and providing a jump-off point for the flashback. making one
storyline of the film black and white is not a new technique to differentiate
plots, ⊮ is a sound one and also usefully gives the film a documentary
flavour. note that we are not given any indication at first that the motel story
has happened before the murder story but, interestingly, this does not seem
to matter. We happily go along with this, content to have what is actually a
crucial fact revealed later, as part of the film’s final ironic twists.
ACTIOn-lIne PATTern
The main action line is constructed in a ‘two-steps-forward, one-step-back’
fashion (see figure 41.1) to put the audience into the shoes of leonard, who,
suffering from short-term memory loss, is constantly forgetting where he is
and why he is there. The pattern is that each ⊕ ⊟ starts in its mid-
dle and continues to its end. it then goes back to its ⊤ and proceeds
forward until we reach the moment where the ⊟ started. The process
then starts all over again. That is, we open in the ⊦ of the next ⊟,
follow it to its end, go back to the start and finish in the ⊦, where we
started. That way, we, the audience, understand what really happened, while
vividly experiencing the sensation of short-term memory loss.
What’s particularly worth noting about Memento is that the audience rec-
ognises the pattern very quickly, and goes with it. This suggests that if you
establish a pattern of unusual flashbacks quickly, the audience will under-
stand it, indeed actively enjoy it. Memento’s popularity is growing, indeed
it is well on its way to achieving cult status, a reminder that ingenious low-
budget parallel ⊚ can translate to big financial returns.
Case studies of flashback films: hybrids and oddities 323
Start of ⊟ End of ⊟
Figure 41.1 ⊕ sequences in Memento’s action line
eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind: Preview
flashback plus tandem
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is a brilliant film both structurally and in
terms of its depiction of love and the sacredness of memory. it combines pre-
view flashback and flashback as illustration with tandem ⊚’s technique
of running equally important stories on the same ⊙ simultaneously and
chronologically. The preview flashback story is the story of joel, the man who
decided to have his memory wiped of a painful love affair with a girl called
Clementine, then changed his mind. The tandem ⊚ content is the sto-
ries of the staff at the company that is doing the memory wiping, lacuna. The
treatment of these stories is one of the ways in which Eternal Sunshine is so daz-
zling. ⊗-wise, all that joel’s story requires from the lacuna material is that the
staff successfully wipe his memories of Clementine and that somehow he and
Clementine find out that their memories have been wiped. however, Charlie
Kaufman’s genius is to use the lacuna staff to explore the film’s themes of pain-
ful love, memory, and mental manipulation in a profound and moving way.
The lACunA STOrIeS
The lacuna staff and premises provide three extra and ingenious love stor-
ies, all about memory and unrequited love: assistant technician Patrick’s
unrequited love for Clementine; the nurse mary’s unrequited love for dr
mierzwiak, and the unrequited love of Stan, the chief technician, for mary.
There is even the hint of a fourth unrequited love story, in the brief appear-
ance of mierzwiak’s betrayed wife. it emerges in the end that mary and dr
mierzwiak once had an affair, but mary has had her memory wiped and
doesn’t remember until she is told, at which point she is devastated.
324 The 21st-Century Screenplay
The strength and originality of the lacuna stories is remarkable. The joel/
Clementine story could be almost completely removed and the stories that
remained would still make up a good tandem ⊚ film on the existing
film’s themes, illustrated through the relationship problems of the lacuna
staff as they callously and disrespectfully deal with a patient called joel who is
trying to wipe the memory of a girlfriend with whom one of their members
has fallen in love, and whom he is trying to manipulate.
in the film as it stands, these stories enrich and develop the themes con-
siderably. in fact, for many people the mary/Stan/dr mierzwiak triangle was
as important if not more important than the joel/Clementine story. it’s inter-
esting, technically, that the film gets a sudden burst of energy and poignancy
from the insertion of the emotionally highly charged mary/dr mierzwiak
story just when the ‘joel and Clementine running away’ scenes are starting to
feel a little repetitive. Possibly, without it the joel-losing- Clementine ⊟
could have made the film feel slow and directionless for a moment—always
dangerous. The lesson seems to be that powerful emotion in one story can
sometimes fix a slowing tendency in another. however, you have to be care-
ful that the powerful emotion in the secondary story does not eclipse the
first story. one extremely powerful ⊕ that was deleted from Eternal Sun­
shine showed mary discovering that in her past, before she had her memory
wiped, mierzwiak had made her get an abortion. it’s interesting to speculate
whether or not that ⊕, had it stayed, would have made mary’s story more
powerful than joel’s.
on a different tack, the extreme naturalism of the scenes of Stan, Patrick
and mary having a party in joel’s flat as they perform a horrific act on his
brain not only makes a symbolic point but keeps the film well and truly cred-
ible. had the brain-wiping process been done more solemnly it would have
emphasised the science-fiction element of the story.
JOel’S STOry In lIneAr FOrM
in linear chronological form, the story of Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless
Mind starts off with ⊛ joel barish’s discovery (disturbance) that his
ex-girlfriend Clementine has had him wiped from her memory by a company
called lacuna. joel chooses to have the same procedure (plan). The techni-
cians, Stan and Patrick, arrive with their computers and start the procedure.
As the brain-wiping process is going on, the tandem ⊚ multiple stor-
ies about the lacuna staff start. We learn that Patrick is having an affair with
Clementine, using her memorabilia of joel, which he has stolen from lacuna,
to steal information that might make her love him. We also learn that mary,
Case studies of flashback films: hybrids and oddities 325
the nurse, is having an affair with Stan but has a crush on their boss, dr
howard mierzwiak.
in the ⊦ of the memory-wiping process, joel starts becoming upset
at the idea of losing Clementine—with whom he is interacting in his mind—
and decides he wants to keep his memories of her (joel’s first-act turning
point—a surprise which turns into an obstacle that drives the rest of his
story). he tries to hide his thoughts from the computer, taking Clementine
with him into unlikely parts of his mind, but ultimately fails, losing her from
his memory just as she asks him to meet her at montauk (the first part of
his second-act turning point, his closest moment to emotional or physical
death).
meanwhile, as joel remains unconscious, we return to the lacuna stories
and find out, at the same time as mary, that she had an affair with the doc-
tor, mierzwiak, but underwent the memory-wiping procedure so does not
remember this. mary is appalled. The lacuna team leaves.
joel awakens, his memory wiped, and sets off for work—but impulsively
and without understanding why, instead takes the train to montauk (the sec-
ond part of his second-act turning point, his decision to act, to fight back).
There, he meets Clementine, who has no memory of him. They interact as
strangers attracted to each other, and joel offers to give her a lift home. She
asks to sleep at his apartment, and they stop at hers so she can pick up a
toothbrush. Patrick, who has been waiting for Clementine, sees joel sitting
in his car and asks him (to his bewilderment) if he is okay.
Clementine arrives back with an envelope containing her file and a cas-
sette tape from lacuna, sent by mary, who has decided to send all of lacuna’s
patients their files. As Clementine plays the tape, which reveals that she and
joel were lovers, they quarrel and part. Clementine later comes to his flat, and
finds him playing a similar tape, sent by mary. They quarrel some more, but
ultimately decide to continue the relationship (⊝).
hOW JOel’S STOry IS PuT TOgeTher
As we’ve seen earlier, the story is constructed initially like standard two-
thirds preview flashback, providing a powerful leaning-forward moment at
the return of the second-act turning point ⊕ that opened the film.
regreT FlAShbACkS
As joel’s memory-wipe story progresses, we see non-chronological snippets
of joel’s memories of Clementine (regret flashbacks) being wiped from joel’s
memory, telling us about the relationship and graphically (and brilliantly)
326 The 21st-Century Screenplay
The film starts here, at the second-
act turning point of Joel’s story,
The Lacuna stories start continues into act three, then returns
here, aafftteerr Joel’s story has to the disturbance and runs straight
returned to its disturbance. through to its end.
They run simultaneously
with Joel’s story.
JOEL’S STORY
Disturbance First-act Second-act ⊝
Joel discovers turning point turning point Joel and
Clementine has Joel decides he Joel loses his Clementine
wiped him from wants to keep memories of decide to try
her memory. his memories of Clementine, but love again.
Clementine. impulsively goes
to Montauk.
Figure 41.2 Joel’s story in eternal Sunshine (preview flashback)
depicting the lacuna process in action (buildings and people disappear, and
so on).
When joel and Clementine start their surreal escape into joel’s mind,
random flashbacks as illustration appear to joel’s earlier life, combined with
material from the present.
COMbInIng PrevIeW FlAShbACk AnD TAnDeM
⊚
There are many fascinating things about the structure of Eternal Sunshine,
but perhaps the most interesting is the combination of a very strong preview
flashback story with an equally strong tandem ⊚ story. This could
well be a new and very useful template, although the form is difficult, as evi-
denced by Winged Creatures, which also combines flashback (life- changing
incident) with tandem but struggles to maintain pace. Since joel’s brain
is really just another world or location, there is no reason why a preview
flashback/tandem model could not be used for a film which, for example,
depicts a tandem ⊚ story set in one country or town connected with
a preview flashback story set in another country or town, with both stories
Case studies of flashback films: hybrids and oddities 327
dealing with the same themes; for example, a person living and interacting
with others in a tandem ⊚ in town A has a preview flashback story set
in town b ten years earlier.
in the light of this, it’s useful to examine how Charlie Kaufman connects
his tandem ⊚ and preview flashback stories. They link up at joel’s plan
stage, just after his story has jumped from its preview ⊟ in montauk
back to its disturbance, which is his discovery that Clementine has had him
wiped from her memory. notice that going to lacuna is joel’s plan. This sug-
gests that the plan stage is a good point to connect the two kinds of story; in
fact, is a good excuse to connect the stories. So you could make your tandem
⊚ story be your preview flashback’s ⊛’s plan. The lacuna
stories stay with joel thereafter.
notice how closely the lacuna stories are physically tied to joel’s story,
appearing almost always in his presence, or Clementine’s, who is also part
of his story. Thus, we meet the lacuna staff and see them interacting when
joel first goes to their offices. later, all but dr mierzwiak are physically at
joel’s apartment for a lengthy period, with Patrick departing only to be with
Clementine. This physical proximity would probably not be essential if you
were using the form as a template, ⊮ does create unities in scenario and
message.
Section 5
Consecutive stories
⊚
Chapter 42
Consecutive stories ⊚: An
introduction
Consecutive stories form describes films as different as Rashomon, Pulp Fic­
tion, City of God, The Joy Luck Club, Amores Perros, Run Lola Run, Paris, je
t’aime, Night on Earth, Coffee and Cigarettes, Atonement, The Circle, Button­
ers, Ten, Go! and, less successfully, Vantage Point.
All of these films tell a series of separate stories (often different versions
or consequences of the same event) one after the other, linking them together
at the end. i used to call this sort of structure ‘sequential ⊚’, but that
caused confusion with a theory about constructing conventional ⊚ in
sequences. i now use the term ‘consecutive stories’, which, if clumsy, is at least
descriptive and impossible to confuse with anything else.
Sometimes these films are described as ‘composite films’, which is not a
useful term because it is often taken to include tandem and fractured tandem
films, which present very different writing problems from consecutive-
stories films. Whereas tandem and fractured tandem films jump between
simultaneously running stories, consecutive stories films tell semi-complete,
sometimes even complete stories one after the after, creating a connection at
the end. This is an utterly different plotting task.
Consecutive stories is one of the hardest parallel ⊚ forms to
handle—precisely because it can so easily turn into an anthology of poorly
328
Consecutive stories ⊚: An introduction 329
connected shorts. While conventional ⊚, tandem, multiple protago-
nist and even flashback forms all pull smoothly to a final ⊝ and don’t, as
it were, end until they end, consecutive stories films have to keep concluding
stories and starting new ones, sometimes actually repeating scenarios and
often jumping about in time. Pulp Fiction actually ends on an event that hap-
pens on day one of three days. This militates against rising suspense and adds
to the normal problems any parallel ⊚ film already has with pace,
connection, meaning and closure.
Additionally—and easily forgotten—in order to maintain audience atten-
tion in this stop-start often repetitive form, each of the stories needs to be
striking (often they are bizarre), and usually, as we’ll see, each is structured as
a suspenseful three-act structure.
The headache for writers is that in most cases the precise reason audi-
ences come to consecutive stories films is to see how these separate, vividly
interesting stories turn out to be cleverly connected. The four questions they
bring are: ‘Why these particular stories?’, ‘What point is this film making?’,
‘Are these stories interesting enough to merit all of this work from me?’ and
‘is this complicated structure really necessary?’ if those questions are prop-
erly answered, they are delighted. however, one false move and they get very
critical indeed. Thankfully, there are clear structural similarities between
successful consecutive stories films, and we can turn these into the begin-
nings of templates.
Different kinds of consecutive stories structures
We can divide consecutive stories films into three main groups, according
to structure and message. each of these is structured differently. There are
also fractured versions of each of the three groups, which we’ll look at later
in detail.
1 ‘Stories walking into the picture’ (The Circle, Ten, Paris, je t’aime)
These are structured like ‘fly on the wall’ documentaries, with separate
stories happening one after the other in the same location. fractured
versions include Pulp Fiction, The Joy Luck Club and City of God.
2 Different versions/perspectives of the same event (Run Lola Run,
Rashomon, Groundhog Day, Vantage Point) These repeat the same
scenario with modifications. fractured versions include The Butterfly
Effect.
3 Different consequences triggered by the same event (Atonement,
Go!) here, consecutive stories happen as the result of one action.
fractured versions include Amores Perros.
328
330 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Typical ways of forming connections
Connections between stories are vital. The audience is coming to see how
these separate, interesting stories are cleverly and thought-provokingly con-
nected to provide one film, one coherent statement. Stories are connected in
the following ways.
COnneCTIOnS by STOry COnTenT
⊙
All stories must share the same ⊙. This is the most basic connection. The
thematic connection might not reveal itself until the last moment, in, say, a twist
⊥, ⊮ must be there, or audiences will rightly ask: ‘Why that story?’
PlACe AnD TIMe
Stories happen in the same location and/or over the same period of time,
or are consequences of the same event (Amores Perros, Atonement). often
the time period is very short (as little as twenty minutes in Run Lola Run).
Some films, however, span many years (The Joy Luck Club, City of God, The
Red Violin). Buttoners uses links by place and times. The action happens over
one night in Prague, 6 August 1995, fifty years to the day after the hiroshima
atom bomb, referenced in its framing ⊗.
ObJeCT, FAMIly, COMMunITy AnD genDer
Stories are often linked by being about the same object (The Red Violin),
community (City of God), or social minority and gender (Chinese–American
mothers and daughters in The Joy Luck Club).
SMAll grOuPS, OFTen CrIMInAl
The stories are often about a distinct and usually small social group, often a
gang, usually connected by something criminal or forbidden.
SCAle
Whereas tandem ⊚ films are epic in their aims and themes, deliber-
ately portraying a wide cross-section of the community, consecutive stories
⊚ goes inwards into a small group, typically showing each individual’s
different view of the same dilemma or event.
vIOlenCe AnD COMeDy OF vIOlenCe
Stories often gain suspense and jeopardy by including violence, serious acci-
dent, death or a threat of these things. When they are not present, as in Ten,
Consecutive stories ⊚: An introduction 331
the films are noticeably slower. black comedy, often very violent comedy,
frequently figures.
vIOlenT COMeDy verSuS bIzArre WIT
The amount of violence in these films worries many writers, who are con-
cerned that consecutive stories films of the future will need to become more
and more violent in order to maintain the same level of energising shock and
rising jeopardy.
Possibly, Buttoners provides an alternative. Buttoners shows that bizarre
wit can take the place of extreme violence and violent comedy in creating
pace in consecutive stories films. in stark contrast to Pulp Fiction, Buttoners
contains no murder and no gangsters, although it does contain two acciden-
tal deaths, and what at first seems to be a suicide. most of the film’s speed and
impact comes from bizarre comedy, not violence or a reversal of male/female
power as in Pulp Fiction.
COnneCTIOnS by STruCTure
FOrM MIrrOrS COnTenT
most films in this form are consciously didactic and their structure delib-
erately mirrors their message. for example, Run Lola Run is about chaos
theory, so uses different versions of the same scenario to illustrate how a
few seconds’ difference can radically change people’s lives. The Circle aims
to show how sexist laws and attitudes in iran trap women in a vicious circle,
so tells its stories of repression so that the action returns full circle to the
place and story where it started; symbolically, a maternity hospital where
an unwanted girl baby has been born. Buttoners has the ⊙ of chance
catastrophes, so uses a series of stories about the operation of chance within
a framing plotline about perhaps the most powerful instance of chance: the
last-minute choice (caused by bad weather) of hiroshima over Kokura as the
target for an atom bomb.
STOrIeS TOlD In One Chunk, Or SPeCIFIC ChunkS
Sometimes the stories are told from start to finish in one chunk (in which
case they will often have their own title), sometimes the stories are told up to
a turning point, to reappear at the film’s end, when they are either concluded
separately, or interwoven (as in tandem ⊚).
Run Lola Run has an extra frame, a prologue and epilogue with ⊞-over
and surreal footage on its chaos theory ⊙.
332 The 21st-Century Screenplay
InTerCOnneCTeD STOrIeS
often stories are interconnected, with characters appearing in several stories.
FInAl TWIST
The film will usually have a twist ⊥.
TrIPlICATIOn
if alternative versions, possibilities or consequences are involved, the number
will usually be three. Triangles of three characters often appear.
DeTeCTIve STOry/JIgSAW
many consecutive stories films have a detective or jigsaw element to pump
up suspense and audience engagement. even Rashomon, at its base, is a
whodunit.
FrAMeS (SIMPle AnD FrACTureD)
most importantly, in all forms one story normally bookends the others, cre-
ating a frame. Sometimes however, to add energy and a unifying circularity
to unsuspenseful or very loosely connected stories, the framing story opens
at its second-act turning point, as in preview flashback then, after all of the
other stories have been told, the film returns to the second-act turning point
with which it opened (again, like preview flashback) and proceeds uninter-
rupted to its ⊝. This happens in Pulp Fiction, City of God, The Joy Luck
Club and The Butterfly Effect. Buttoners has a fractured frame formed of its
Kokura/hiroshima story. Sometimes, as in Amores Perros, the framing starts
and ends in the ⊦ of the film.
i call this sort of fractured frame a portmanteau because a portmanteau is
a sturdy bag with handles, and the term describes very accurately how even
very different, uneven and unconnected stories can be inserted inside one
⊗ (just as you insert objects into a bag) with the unconnected stories being
carried to pleasing closure by the portmanteau’s momentum. We will look at
portmanteau frames in detail later.
An exCePTIOn: The AnThOlOgy FIlM
one kind of consecutive stories film, the anthology film, is not intended to
provide one cohesive message; indeed, it is intended to be viewed as a col-
lection of shorts. Anthology films consist of a set of short films on the same
⊙ or premise, each showcasing the different talents of either one director
or actor, or a variety of different directors or actors. Stories may all happen
Consecutive stories ⊚: An introduction 333
in the same place, or on the same night, or involve the same objects or basic
scenario. examples are Paris, je t’aime, New York Stories, Night on Earth and
Coffee and Cigarettes. because there is no intention of the film working as
one creative entity, maintaining suspense and a consistent message is not a
problem, although, of course, the film must still engage its audience.
Chapter 43
Consecutive stories: Stories
walking into the picture
filmS in ThiS CATeGory are the simplest version of consecutive stories
film. They include The Circle, Ten, and the anthology Paris, je t’aime. i call the
form ‘stories walking into the picture’ because, literally, that’s what happens.
These films set out to depict a slice of life as seen in a ⊟ of stories or
episodes, usually told in chronological order, often happening over a short
period, typically a few hours or a night. The simplest version is linear and
runs chronologically from start to finish. Sometimes the message is didac-
tic (as in The Circle). Sometimes the message is simply ‘how interesting the
people in this place are, and how talented are the directors making this film’
(as in anthology films like Paris, je t’aime).
usually, the films will come full circle to where they started, to symbol-
ise a message that their characters are trapped in a vicious circle or, if more
restrained, that ‘this is the normality of this place’. That circle creates a pleas-
ing frame.
Connections
The stories are always on the same ⊙. in typical consecutive stories style,
the stories will usually involve a small group, often (except in anthologies)
criminal or in breach of social taboos or rules. other connections will be
made in typical consecutive stories fashion (see p. 330) through time, place,
social grouping (gender, gang, community, family etc.).
The pattern (one story appearing after another) is rhythmical. its pleasure
for the audience is in this simple rhythm. new characters with new stories
keep taking over the action, one story giving way to the next, just as runners
pass on the baton in a relay race. often the films are set in public places, with
new characters literally walking into shot as the camera tracks along. This
technique gives a ‘fly on the wall’ documentary effect, an effect that the film-
makers are usually actively seeking to transmit their socio-political intention.
The Circle opens in the maternity ward of a hospital on a story about a
woman discovering that her daughter has given birth to a girl and not the
334
Consecutive stories: Stories walking into the picture 335
boy the family was expecting and wanted. The camera follows this woman
out into the street, where her story is interrupted by three women prison
escapees trying to hide from police. The camera leaves the first woman to
follow the adventures of the three escapees, until, into frame walks a woman
who is trying to abandon her daughter. The camera follows her story, then
goes onto yet another story concerning the plight of women in iran—and so
on. The film maintains this pattern until, finally, we return full circle to the
hospital and the first story so that, as i have said, the film is framed, symboli-
cally, by the story of the unwanted baby girl.
The film Ten uses walking into the picture style to tell a non-political
story, the story of a young boy’s access meetings with his mother. during
shooting, the camera was literally attached to the dashboard of the car during
their drives. it records their conversations and the people they meet as they
drive along together.
Sometimes these films have a prologue and epilogue, forming a kind of
frame. fractured forms of walking into the picture (as in films like Pulp Fic­
tion, City of God, The Joy Luck Club, Buttoners and The Butterfly Effect) use
complex portmanteau frames either to keep their stories coherent or to over-
come an inherent lack of chronologically building suspense. We will look in
detail at portmanteau forms later.
Issues and danger points in linear stories
walking into the picture
POTenTIAl PrObleMS WITh PACe
films that use stories walking into the picture in its linear form are rarely
very suspenseful and often don’t feature a final twist, their point being to
show that life is predictable. They are intended to seize the audience prima-
rily on an intellectual level. They eschew emotion. The Circle does include
suspense and emotion, centred on whether the various women will solve the
problems they have, ⊮ is a limited, low-key mixture of the two, more
like dread, because the film’s point is that inevitably the women will suffer
because of institutionalised discrimination. The film’s ⊝ is a grim anti-
⊝, strongly suggesting that the cycle of oppression will continue into the
next generation.
A nArrOWer AuDIenCe
because of their lack of pace and surprises, linear walking into the picture
films will usually attract only a limited art-house audience. be aware if you
are writing in this form that while your message may require predictability
334
336 The 21st-Century Screenplay
and a gloomy anticlimax, these things can slow the film and make it feel as if
it is ⊥ in mid air. if you want a wider audience, you need to create higher
levels of emotion and suspense, which means surprises, and normally the
sharper, more final (hence pleasing) closure that comes from a story about a
chain of events that is abnormal, not normal. Some kind of twist at the end,
even a small one, might help here as might a portmanteau frame.
MAke Sure The STOrIeS Are All On-MeSSAge
linear stories walking into the picture is the loosest of the consecutive-story
forms, with a very fragile build to closure based on the pattern of themati-
cally linked stories appearing rhythmically in ⊟. make sure you
understand your message and be careful that each of your stories transmits
that message, because it is very easy to get distracted into writing a story
which of itself is excellent, but is not on the same ⊙, so does not fit. Set
up the pattern and the message early.
InvenT OTher lInkS
The more links, the more chance for audience engagement, thus the stronger
the film. Consider inserting other links between the stories via:
•
visuals or sound (for example, include the same images in each story,
the same chiming clock)
•
time (for example, make all the stories take place over a day or an
evening)
•
background (for example, make all of the protagonists irritated by
traffic jams, cold weather)
•
interconnected plots (for example, all of the connected people come
to the same job-search agency, the same station—or all are friends, or
relatives or enemies)
•
filmic style (camera angles, cutting etc.). This is the director’s
territory, but you can build suggestions into the script.
337
Chapter 44
Consecutive stories: Different
perspectives
exAmPleS Are: RUN LOLA Run, Rashomon, Groundhog Day, Vantage
Point, The Nines and, in a fractured form, The Butterfly Effect. films in this
form repeat different versions of events either to show what might have been
or may be, or to give alternative accounts of what happened, emphasising the
subjectivity of human experience and the slippery nature of truth. recently,
chaos theory has come into the mix.
Rashomon and Vantage Point are about different perspectives on a crime.
Run Lola Run and The Nines provide versions of what might have been, ref-
erencing computer games. Run Lola Run and The Butterfly Effect are about
chaos theory. Groundhog Day is about Phil, a selfish, unpleasant man trapped
in the same day until he reforms, a character not so distantly related to
ebenezer Scrooge.
Issues and danger points in different-
perspectives films
rePeTITIOn
films written in different-perspectives form are the hardest of consecutive-
stories films to write because, while they are written specifically to show
repetition, repetition can quickly become boring. All films need to seize their
audiences, increasing audience engagement all the way to the film’s ⊝,
creating one cohesive statement. This is very hard to do if you have to keep
going back to square one and starting again, and what’s more, starting again
with essentially the same scenario. Vantage Point, which sets out to show
eight different perspectives on an assassination, has problems with repetition.
i discuss this and the possible reasons for it below in detail (see pp. 439–40).
PhIlOSOPhICAl InTenT
Rashomon, Groundhog Day, Run Lola Run, The Butterfly Effect and The Nines
employ repetition to transmit a specific philosophical message. Vantage Point
doesn’t have a message, and this is part of its problem.
337
338 The 21st-Century Screenplay
hArMOny reSTOreD
usually, the film closes in the present with harmony restored.
All OF The FIlMS OPen AT TheIr ChrOnOlOgICAl STArT
note that structurally, at present all different-perspectives films open at the
chronological start of the story, as if the film is to be a normal linear film. They
insert their repetitions only after a conventional linear ⊨. This is a great
help in establishing for the audience what film they’re in. interestingly, the
writer of Groundhog Day, danny rubin, says that the film originally started in
its chronological ⊦ (like Pulp Fiction and Amores Perros).
FIlMS enD AT TheIr ChrOnOlOgICAl enD
The films finish at their chronological end (if this sounds self-evident,
remember that Pulp Fiction ends close to its chronological start).
rePeTITIOnS Are lArge ChunkS OF ACTIOn
The repetitions are large chunks of action; they are not just fleeting fragments
of memory—bits of flashback as illustration—although sometimes flashback
as illustration appears as an extra. The size of the repetitions is a potential
problem because cutting from a lengthy story to the start of a new story can
stop a film in its tracks.
rePeTITIOnS STArT AT The FIrST-ACT TurnIng POInT
fascinatingly, Run Lola Run, Groundhog Day and Rashomon all start their
repetitions only at first-act turning point. Crucially, and very useful to know,
each of their repetitions provides a different response to the first­act turning
point question. The repetitions take the place of a normal ⊪; more
precisely, they replace the normal barriers and reversals of the ⊪.
FrAMe
The start of the ‘different versions’ section at the end of the ⊫ means
that the ⊫ and the endings of these films form a kind of frame. The
frames vary from film to film. in Rashomon, the story of the men talking as
they shelter from the rain forms a clear frame for the whole film. The second
act depicts their conversation, as each provides a different account of a recent
crime involving a man, his wife and a bandit. Groundhog Day is similar. The
frame is formed out of the ⊫ (‘Phil before his conversion’) and the third
act (‘Phil after his conversion’), with the repetitions, the many versions of the
same day, happening in the ⊦.
Consecutive stories: Different perspectives 339
Run Lola Run is a mixture of the two. its ⊫ definitely sets the stage
for the repetitions, as in Groundhog Day and Rashomon, and the three rep-
etitions are definitely three possible answers to the question raised by the
first-act turning point, namely, ‘how can lola get the money to save manny
in twenty minutes?’ however, there is no third act in Run Lola Run that
frames the three possible answers. instead, the first two versions of how lola
gets the money end on catastrophe, each providing a possible second-act
turning point ⊥ to the film, in which it would be a tragedy. meanwhile,
the third answer, the happy ⊥, skips its second-act turning point (lola
at her worst possible moment) and third act (battle to win after catastrophe)
and goes straight to a ⊝, where all ends well. The film does have a frame,
⊮ is made up of a kind of prologue and epilogue consisting of material
that is nothing to do with lola and manny’s story. it features a philosophical
⊞-over from some kind of god-like narrator, quotations from T.S. eliot,
striking images of a clock face, comments about life as a game, and surreal
footage of the cast. note that Run Lola Run works very well with its truncated
third version, which provides very pleasing connection, meaning and clo-
sure. This is useful to know if you’re planning a ‘different-perspectives’ film.
Probably the fact that we’ve already had two grim second-act turning points
means we don’t need a third. Some people see closure provided by a Chris-
tian message in the third version, because lola at one point invokes God.
The Nines does not have a frame (and some people find this a problem, see
pp. 340–1), although it does have a kind of explanatory epilogue in the present.
TrIPlICATIOn
Run Lola Run, Rashomon and The Nines involve triplication. each film gives
three strikingly different versions of the same story from the point of view of
participants. Rashomon has a stranger providing the fourth and most likely
version.
TrunCATIOn
Run Lola Run, The Nines and Rashomon each show the different versions
of their stories in their entirety. Groundhog Day needs to have many more
repetitions to get its point across. it needs to show the ⊛ endlessly
reliving the same day. note how it cleverly avoids boredom by starting to
truncate the variations as soon as we’ve got the idea, then truncating more
and more until the repetitions are tiny. This means we get the sense of repeti-
tion but the ⊗ can move quickly. Truncation is an excellent device for films
that need many repetitions.
340 The 21st-Century Screenplay
FInAl TWISTS
Run Lola Run, Rashomon, The Nines and Groundhog Day all have a final twist.
The rePeATeD MATerIAl IS ShOrT
Run Lola Run, Groundhog Day and Rashomon all deal with one short, self-
contained event. lola’s event is a period of twenty minutes in which she
has to find a large sum of money. Groundhog Day deals with one day, and
Rashomon deals with an event that lasted about an hour or two. Nines deals
with three different versions of a life, but all are short.
none of these films explores what happened after the key event in any
depth (although each version of lola’s story also explores different possible
outcomes for a range of people lola meets as she runs). Vantage Point does
continue its story, to problematic effect (see pp. 439–40).
OTher DevICeS In run lOlA run ThAT AChIeve energy
AnD COnneCTIOn
Run Lola Run’s emotional impact is significantly increased by soundtrack
effects that emphasise panic and time ticking away. The film also deliberately
references video games and uses in all three stories slightly different versions
of a piece of animation of lola running. All add connection and ramp up sus-
pense. Also employed is the classic suspense technique of the ‘ticking clock’,
whereby the ⊛ has to complete an act within a limited time or face
dire consequences. in fact, her task is to cheat death, something much more
confronting than anything in Rashomon and Groundhog Day. This in itself
increases the suspense level.
Is different perspectives the best form for your
material?
if you want a form with a lot of complex twists and turns, consider whether
your material really suits different perspectives form, because it is a form
that does not have the screen time for a lot of complicated plotting since the
repetitions eat up the screen time. even The Butterfly Effect has only a few
significant scenes in the past that the ⊛ keeps changing. That said,
the fractured model provided by The Butterfly Effect (see pp. 362–4) might
give you the complexity you’re after.
The nines: no frame, possibly ahead of its time
interestingly The Nines, written by john August, the writer of Go!, is a
different-perspectives film that does not have a frame, although it has an
Consecutive stories: Different perspectives 341
explanatory epilogue. Triplication is central: three stories appear consecu-
tively, with the same actors playing very different characters in each, and
with one actor, a man, always playing the part of ⊛, who is very
different in each. in the first story he is an actor, in the second he’s a writer
and in the third he’s a computer-game designer. eventually, in a third story
twist (as in Run Lola Run), we find out that this reappearing ⊛ is in
real life a game designer, living in the game he created, and each of the con-
secutive stories is a different version of the game. he is a god figure and can
destroy the whole world for the people he has created.
ultimately, he has to leave the game, but fixes things in the third game so
that all the characters he likes survive and have good lives. The films bears
story and philosophical resemblances to time-travel films like The Butterfly
Effect but, typical of different-perspectives films, is about ‘what if?’ and pos-
sible life choices.
interestingly, The Nines takes a long while to get started. it feels, discon-
certingly, as if you’ve walked into the film halfway through. This is probably
because it doesn’t have a frame to set up the repetitions or warn us that the
film is out of the ordinary. Perhaps this is a failing of the audience. Perhaps
The Nines is ahead of its time. Perhaps in a few years’ time we won’t even
notice the lack of a frame, and indeed, will find frames cumbersome.
Chapter 45
Consecutive stories:
Different consequences
filmS in ThiS CATeGory use stories in which one action triggers differ-
ent consequences for a range of characters. examples are Atonement and Go!
Atonement
Atonement, adapted from the novel of the same name, shows how a young
girl, briony, mistakes the identity of a rapist, which causes terrible, long-term
consequences for herself, her sister Cecilia, and her sister’s lover, robbie.
Structurally, it is close to the novel. it is a very clever adaptation, faithfully
yet inventively transferring the novel to film. one of the things it illustrates
brilliantly is how to condense a novel; how to cut. interestingly, the makers of
Atonement tried other structures before returning to something much closer
to the structure of the novel.
it shows many elements typical of consecutive stories films, as follows.
CrIMe, SMAll grOuP
The film is centrally concerned with a rape and deals with a small family group.
TrIPlICATIOn
The film is split into three sections, plus an epilogue, and involves three key
characters. The first section deals with the wrongful accusation, the second
deals with robbie’s wartime experience getting to dunkirk, and the third
deals with briony’s experiences as a nurse and her apology to Cecilia and
robbie, now reunited.
lIneAr AnD MOSTly ChrOnOlOgICAl
The film tells its stories in the past consecutively then provides a final epi-
logue set in the present. The movement is almost chronological, but not
entirely. There are some brief flashbacks in the main action and the third
story (briony grown up and a nurse) starts three weeks before the second
story (robbie in World War ii france).
342
Consecutive stories: Different consequences 343
The TruTh AnD A TWIST
Typical of consecutive stories form, the film deals with notions of truth and
employs a final twist in the epilogue.
lOng TIMe SPAn, bIOgrAPhICAl
like many consecutive stories films, Atonement depicts life stories and spans
many years.
TICkIng ClOCk
There is a ticking clock in robbie’s desperate bid to get to dunkirk, to be
evacuated and return to Cecilia.
Structure
Structurally, the first section (the rape and robbie’s arrest) is in multiple pro-
tagonist form, because we do not see events from just one character’s point
of view, we see them from the point of view of each equally. This is worth
remembering as a technique because it gives each of the three main players,
briony, Cecilia and robbie, their own story and makes the audience invest in
each immediately and at the same time. for each, the wrongful accusation is
their first-act turning point—because for each, it fulfils our test for the first-act
turning point of being the surprise that turns into the story’s obstacle and also
it is for each what their story (and the whole film) is about.
The first-act turning point is, of course, a good place to start new stories
because, as we’ve seen, it provides a thought-provoking surprise.
during the first section of Atonement, there are brief ‘rewinds’, reminiscent
of Memento because they first depict the second part of an incident between
the two lovers (the bit witnessed by briony), then immediately afterwards
run the whole incident again, from start to finish, from the lovers’ point of
view. note how easily audiences understand this use of rewind.
⊦ SeCTIOn: PreCISe bACkSTOry TrAnSMISSIOn
The second part of the film has jumped forward in time. it concerns rob-
bie, in World War ii france, making his way to dunkirk for evacuation. it
leaves robbie at what looks like the first part of a second-act turning point
(closest moment to death) at dunkirk, which turns out to be a hell on earth.
leaving a story at second-act turning point is, of course, sound storytelling.
it has appeared time and again in parallel ⊚ and we will see it again
in Go!
Technically, this section has to transmit a great deal of backstory
342
344 The 21st-Century Screenplay
explaining what happened during the time jump, and does so brilliantly. it’s
worth looking at for tips.
it transmits backstory through brief flashbacks as illustration as robbie
remembers his earlier past with briony (cleverly and economically showing
her crush on him) and his final meeting with Cecilia.
The latter ⊕, in which, just out of jail, he meets Cecilia in a café, seeing her
for the first time since he was imprisoned and just before he is going to war in
france, is a masterpiece of powerful but economic dramatisation. it’s well worth
studying. of itself, it’s clearly a highly emotional, dynamic ⊕, pushing the
story forward. but what’s so particularly clever is the way it is used to transmit,
during the couple’s deeply moving but restrained exchanges, both what has hap-
pened between them since robbie’s arrest and also their future plans.
We can see how clever this ⊟ is by considering alternative back-
story transmission devices. for example, a flashback about robbie’s court
case could not have carried half as much information or been anywhere near
as emotionally loaded. it would probably have slowed the film down. limits
of screen time mean very careful ⊕ choice. Transmitting backstory as
part of a powerfully emotional ⊕ is optimum.
ThIrD SeCTIOn
This jumps to briony, now in her late teens and an aspiring writer, showing her
working as a nurse in wartime london, having, as a kind of penance, given up
her chance to study at Cambridge. it has elements of a third act for all three
main characters, being a kind of battle to win on the part of each, with briony
meeting the other two and apologising, and all three wanting to clear robbie’s
name. The meeting, bitter and heated, provides a limited reconciliation.
ePIlOgue
many years later, briony, now a distinguished elderly novelist about to release a
novel called Atonement, reveals the truth of what happened in a poignant twist.
exTrA eFFeCTS
The use of typewriter sound effects powerfully suggests the fact that a story
is being written. At the end, in a twist, we realise that what was being written
was a whole novel.
go!
Go! uses consecutive stories form to tell six narratives (three in detail) from
different points of view (note the triplication). Typical of many consecutive
Consecutive stories: Different consequences 345
stories films, all of the stories happen over one night, Christmas eve. All deal
with the dramatic and often bizarre events that happen to a (typically) small
group of friends who work in a supermarket. The events are all triggered by
one character’s decision to take another’s shift behind the cash register. The
stories overlap from the start, with different stories depicting the same scenes
from different points of view, and become closely interwoven at the end.
The film involves—as per usual in a consecutive stories film—crime,
violence and the threat of death. While comparisons are often made with
Pulp Fiction—and there are certainly stylistic links between the two, both
having bizarre and violent black comedy, both dealing with double-crossing
and revenge in the world of pimps and drug pushers, both telling apparently
complete consecutive stories that come together with unexpected twists—
there is no complicated time-jumping in Go! as there is in Pulp Fiction. Also,
while Pulp Fiction ends with a surprisingly traditional moral (that even
criminals can find redemption), Go! deliberately avoids making a moral or
philosophical point (which, actually, makes it an oddity in the consecutive
stories family). it ends with normality completely restored, which, unfortu-
nately, creates what for some audiences is a disappointing anticlimax.
Go! contains high jeopardy, with each of its main characters facing death
and/or prison, three for what seems initially like murder, but ultimately all of
the victims survive. note that each of its stories has a clear, albeit truncated,
three-act structure. for example, the central story, that of ronna, the girl
who accepts the extra shift and becomes involved with a potentially fatal
drug deal, is constructed thus:
1 Disturbance: ronna accepts Simon’s shift to pay for overdue rent and
avoid eviction.
2 First-act turning point: ronna agrees to get drugs for Zack and
Adam in order to pay overdue rent.
3 Second-act turning point: ronna is left for dead in a ditch after
being shot by Todd and run over by Adam and Zack.
4 Third act: ronna wakes up in hospital, discharges herself, goes to
work, finds mannie alive.
5 ⊝: ronna has the money for her rent and some left over.
TrunCATIOn
individual stories are inevitably short in consecutive stories films because
there are so many of them. The place to truncate is the second-act, and third-
act battle to win. The first-act turning point must stay. you could probably
346 The 21st-Century Screenplay
create stories in this form that end at their first-act turning point (a thought-
provoking surprise), but you would have to make sure to unite all the stories
somehow at the end.
Three nArrATIveS TAken TO SeCOnD-ACT TurnIng
POInT
for structural purposes, a particularly interesting aspect of Go! is that it takes
each of its three main narratives to their second-act turning point, stops them
there, then resolves them all in a final section. This provides great jeopardy.
Additionally, there is a pleasing symmetry in the fact that each story has its
third act in the final part of the film.
once again, the second-act turning point proves to be a very good place
to jump between stories.
using Atonement and go! as templates
While Atonement’s structure is probably too closely linked to its content to
provide an exact template, its use of a shared ⊫ for all three stories, its
final twists, its good backstory tricks, truncation, and the way it makes two of
the stories overlap in time are transferable. your subject matter would prob-
ably need to involve ongoing consequences for three characters, or people
involved in three stories (three characters or stories also figure in other films
about consequences such as 21 Grams, Three Burials, Amores Perros and The
Hours and it works well). As in the different-perspectives films Run Lola Run,
Rashomon and Groundhog Day, the main story of the film (three stories in
this case) is set up in the ⊫, splitting into separate stories thereafter.
your best bet would be to work out carefully what happened to your three
central characters then decide at what points in their lives you want to visit
them. you will need a situation that brings them together dramatically. A
rosebud twist will add poignancy and transmit the film’s message. Go!’s
clever suspense-creating trick of stopping all three narratives at the second-
act turning point of each, before resolving all in an unexpected way in the
third act, is clearly transferable.
both models call for strong, rising three-act stories planned separately
before being interconnected. robin Swicord’s technique of jumping stories
so that the emotional level of the ⊕ you leave is the same as the emotional
level of the ⊕ you enter might be useful here to achieve rising suspense
and emotion across storylines, although a contrasting emotion can also be
effective (see p. 234).
347
Chapter 46
Consecutive stories: Portmanteau
films
filmS in ThiS CATeGory include The Joy Luck Club, Pulp Fiction, City
of God, Amores Perros, Buttoners and The Butterfly Effect. homer’s Odyssey
also uses this structure. To recap, a portmanteau is a type of frame made out
of splitting a ⊗ in two to bookend a set of other stories. however, instead
of ⊨ at its chronological start, the portmanteau opens at its second-
act turning point and (except in rare cares) returns there after all the other
stories have been told, only then continuing to its end. Sometimes, the port-
manteau story is visited between the other stories (as in City of God, where
the portmanteau is young rocket growing up, and Buttoners, where it is what
is happening in Kokura and on the Enola Gay). Sometimes it disappears after
the start, returning only at the end of the film (as in Pulp Fiction). i have
found six kinds of portmanteau and there are probably more out there and
more to come. Portmanteau frames are well worth mastering because they
work wonderfully to hold together and insert suspense into loosely con-
nected or potentially slow or repetitive stories.
As with preview and thwarted dream flashback, starting a film on the
second-act turning point (first or second part) creates a detective story and
a high-jeopardy hook. The portmanteau will jump from its ⊨ second-
act turning point ⊕ back to its disturbance, thus rapidly telling audiences
what film they’re in. When the film finally returns to the second-act turning
point the mystery is solved, creating a pleasing unity. The powerful pull to
closure of one plotline carries the whole film. Paradoxically, one ⊗ will
support and sustain many plots: the lesser contains the greater.
in The Joy Luck Club, the portmanteau ⊗ is the story of the young
Chinese– American girl who discovers why her mother abandoned her twin
half-sisters. The film opens at the moment just after the mother’s death when
the girl has decided to go to China to visit her long-lost half-sisters (closest
moment to death or despair followed by decision to act, hence, second-act
turning point).
in City of God, the portmanteau is the story of rocket, the young
347
348 The 21st-Century Screenplay
⊛, growing up in a ghetto in rio de janeiro. The second-act turn-
ing point ⊨ of the film shows rocket literally staring down the barrels
of guns pointed at him by both gangsters and police.
in Pulp Fiction the portmanteau is the story of jules, the gangster who
finds God. The film opens with the planning and start of the robbery; that
is, just before jules’ second-act turning point, his closest moment to death,
which is when Pumpkin’s gun is in his face.
The portmanteau opens up astonishing possibilities because it artificially
creates pace, suspense, connection, meaning and closure in consecutive-story
material that has no inherent chronological build to closure. it’s particularly
useful for biographical films that span many years, hence have a tendency to
be episodic. in City of God, it holds together stories that extend over several
years and include time jumps. in Buttoners it turns what might be simply
a black comedy about the inhabitants of Prague into a thought-provoking
reminder about the horror of hiroshima, and consequently about guilt and
individual responsibility. in Pulp Fiction, it permits the film’s very effective
⊝ to happen on the morning of day one of a three-day series of stories.
in The Joy Luck Club, it manages to tell the stories of eight women across
many time frames and many locations without the audience ever losing its
place or getting bored.
The fractured frame is all the more amazing since, as we’ll see, it has been
in use for at least three thousand years (since homer’s time), and possibly
longer.
good structure in individual stories
Portmanteau films are just fractured consecutive stories films. not surpris-
ingly then, they usually contain typical consecutive stories elements. The
stories:
•
are on the same ⊙
•
are striking and tightly structured in three-acts, albeit often truncated
•
concern a specific and often criminal group
•
contain crime or social taboos broken
•
often have their own titles
Portmanteau 1: The Joy luck Club
The Joy Luck Club is at base a ‘stories walking into the picture’ film. it uses
portmanteau structure as a way to depict coherently the troubled relation-
ships, colourful histories and final reconciliations of four sets of mothers
and daughters from San francisco’s Chinese–American community. it is a
Consecutive stories: Portmanteau films 349
particularly useful model if your film spans a lengthy period, has many loca-
tions and involves a lot of similar characters. remarkably, The Joy Luck Club
not only manages to tell a huge amount of story set in several locations across
generations without us getting lost, but also does so while involving an army
of women characters, including several characters who are depicted at vari-
ous ages—as toddler, little girl, adolescent, young woman and old woman.
Amazingly, at no point are we puzzled about who is who or where we are. The
film achieves this by a clever portmanteau and by quarantining different sets
of characters in separate, self-contained stories.
All of the mothers in The Joy Luck Club have been friends since arriving
many years ago from China and all of the daughters grew up together in the
uS. The portmanteau story, as i’ve said, is the mother–daughter relationship
between one girl and her newly deceased mother. it involves the girl’s diffi-
cult childhood and also the mystery of why the dead mother abandoned her
twin baby daughters in China.
The action jumps between a community party (being held to fare-
well the bereaved girl, who is about to visit her half-sisters in China)
and each mother–daughter story. The mystery of the abandoned twins
provides ongoing suspense, holding all of the stories together and, in its
twist denouement, providing a hopeful message about mother–daughter
relationships.
The film begins with its portmanteau, ⊨ on the bereaved girl’s
second-act turning point (just after her mother’s death). it then goes back
to the start of the girl’s story, explaining her childhood. next, the stories of
the three other mother–daughter pairs are told consecutively, as complete
two-part stories. in each of these, we first see the story from the point of
view of one of the mother–daughter pair (introduced with ⊞-over). We
then jump into the mind of the other member of the pair, who also uses
⊞-over to show us her point of view. between each of these mother–
daughter double stories we return to the party. finally, when the three
mother–daughter stor ies have been told, the first story (the portmanteau
story of the bereaved girl) is concluded, and we learn why the dead mother
abandoned her twin daughters. The film ends on the ⊝ of the bereaved
girl’s story, which is when she meets her half-sisters in China.
The stories are told as in figure 46.1. The shaded parts are the portman-
teau. notice the pleasing, rhythmic pattern the film sets up.
The film shows many typical consecutive stories characteristics. it’s about
a small social group, it’s didactic, its stories involve crime, death, violence
and even murder. it does not include triplication to the normal degree, ⊮
350 The 21st-Century Screenplay
PORTMANTEAU STORY
End mother/daughter 1
Portmanteau story: set at the farewell party for daughter 1 (who is at her second-act
story (portmanteau).
turning point, her mother’s death, and who tomorrow goes to China)
Daughter 1 is told the truth.
First part of Daughter 1 in
mother/daughter China
1 story
(portmanteau),
then return to
party
Entire story of Entire story of Entire story of
mother/daughter mother/daughter mother/daughter
2, then return to 3, then return to 4, then return to
party party party
Figure 46.1 The Joy luck Club portmanteau
does have three self-contained stories. it ends with a twist—the truth behind
the abandonment of the twin babies. it involves a mystery story, with detec-
tive elements. There is no black comedy.
The Joy Luck Club provides several useful techniques to help the audience
follow the story. They’re worth learning.
1. SeT The POrTMAnTeAu AT A gATherIng
Setting the portmanteau ⊗ at a party is clever because when we return to the
present from a flashback, we know instantly, visually, exactly where we are in
time and place. We know who is present and we can tell everyone apart. This
means the action can continue without stopping to fill in these details via dia-
logue. Also, the next story can start smoothly, effortlessly and credibly with the
next mother–daughter pair simply coming into shot. by regularly returning to
the various mother–daughter pairs all assembled in the same room and inter­
acting, The Joy Luck Club constantly reminds its audience of which daughter
belongs to which mother, and of how the four young women and their moth-
ers differ. it’s like getting a group photo at the end of every story.
These are basic but vital matters. it’s vital that audiences know who’s who,
and you can’t expect them to differentiate between a group of very similar-
looking characters if, as well as only providing fleeting glimpses, you return
to each character in a different context. Consecutive stories films present the
added problem that individual characters will often have to be absent from
the screen for long periods as other stories play. it’s vital to provide clear,
visual distinctions.
Consecutive stories: Portmanteau films 351
2. SlAb STruCTure keePS ChArACTerS DISTInCT
Another clever way that the film is preventing us getting lost is by quarantin-
ing each mother–daughter story. each story, apart from the portmanteau, is
told in one uninterrupted slab. This means all of the different versions of one
character are confined to one story and we can tell who is who (imagine try-
ing to keep track of which little girl becomes which woman if the action kept
jumping between stories).
3. SPeCTACleS, DreSS AnD hAIr STyleS, MAnnerISMS
The Joy Luck Club uses some of these traditional devices for helping audi-
ences tell characters apart and pick a character at different ages. They’re
always handy.
The JOy luCk Club AS A TeMPlATe
Create all of the stories separately, as powerful three-act structures, taking
care that the portmanteau ⊗ happens at a gathering of all the featured
characters. be careful with time jumps and make the transitions to the next
story a bit different each time, or they could become tedious. The Swicord
technique of jumping stories so that the emotional level of the ⊕ you
leave is the same as the emotional level of the ⊕ you enter can help create
rising suspense, with a contrasting emotion sometimes useful.
Portmanteau 2: Pulp Fiction
Pulp Fiction should not work. it jumps about in time to tell a series of
interconnected but autonomous stories (happening over three days) in self-
contained chunks, some of which have titles. it starts and ends in the ⊦
of the action. it kills off what appears to be its ⊛, Vincent, in a
dramatic aside in the ⊦ of someone else’s story. it is extremely long. yet,
despite all these potential recipes for disaster, it is strikingly powerful, fast,
suspenseful, full of well-drawn characters, and grimly comical.
doubtless some of this is to do with the large amount of jeopardy,
surprise, and quirky, often shocking, black comedy, delivered by two
gangsters who much of the time interact like a comedy duo, even down to
the patter. it also has a lively soundtrack. but what prevents Pulp Fiction
from dropping into a collection of vividly original and hard-hitting short
films is its portmanteau structure. This structure is immensely useful to
writers. it provides us with clues, indeed a whole template for writing
story material that does not have a chronological build to ⊝.
352 The 21st-Century Screenplay
PulP FICTIOn AS A TeMPlATe
Pulp Fiction is a very useful template for consecutive stories films that:
•
are really just a collection of stories about members of the same
group, occurring over a few days
•
are not linked by the same ⊝
•
do not have their most dramatic point at their chronological end
•
have stories that occur in different time frames
•
probably do not start out having a strong message
STOrIeS WAlkIng InTO The PICTure/ChrOnOlOgICAl
⊟
untangled, Pulp Fiction is in ‘stories walking into the picture’ form. it is
not held together by its chronological ⊟, which is anticlimactic, and
unlike The Circle or Ten, in its chronological form it has no pleasing circular
movement. here is the action in Pulp Fiction set out first chronologically
then in its viewing order.
DAy 1, MOrnIng
1 jules and Vincent shoot the boys who tried to steal marcellus’
money.
2 A young man bursts out of the bathroom and shoots six bullets
at Vincent and jules from point-blank range—but misses. jules
speculates that this is divine intervention. They shoot the young
man, and take a fourth man, marvin, with them when they
leave.
3 marvin is accidentally shot in jules’ and Vincent’s car. They go to
jimmy’s to get rid of the corpse and clean up. mr Wolf arrives at
jimmy’s and removes the corpse. Vincent and jules clean up and
change clothes.
4 jules and Vincent have breakfast at a restaurant, where jules
decides to become God’s servant because he feels that the bullets
missing him was divine intervention and a message from God.
5 Pumpkin and honey bunny plan and commence the robbery at the
restaurant.
6 jules prevents the robbery and lets Pumpkin and honey bunny go,
intending to become an evangelist.
7 jules and Vincent visit a bar, where butch is getting instructions
from marcellus about fixing his fight.
Consecutive stories: Portmanteau films 353
DAy 1, evenIng
8 Vincent takes mia out. She nearly overdoses. he saves her.
DAy 2, evenIng
9 butch, asleep, dreams of the time he was given his dead father’s
watch by one of the father’s war buddies. butch wakes up.
10 butch wins his fight.
DAy 3, MOrnIng
11 butch discovers that his girlfriend has left the watch back at his
apartment, so goes back to collect it.
12 he shoots Vincent dead.
13 butch and marcellus are kidnapped by rapists. butch rescues
marcellus. marcellus forgives him. butch leaves town with his
girlfriend.
vIeWIng OrDer In PulP FICTIOn
here is how Pulp Fiction is shown on screen.
DAy 1, MOrnIng
1 Pumpkin and honey bunny plan and commence the robbery.
2 jules and Vincent shoot two boys who tried to steal marcellus’
money.
3 jules and Vincent go to the bar, where marcellus is instructing
butch to lose his fight that evening.
DAy 1, evenIng
4 Vincent takes out mia, marcellus’ wife. She nearly overdoses. he
saves her.
DAy 2, evenIng
5 butch, asleep, dreams of the time he was given his dead father’s
watch by one of the father’s war buddies. butch wakes up.
6 butch wins the fight.
DAy 3, MOrnIng
7 butch discovers that his girlfriend has left the watch back at his
apartment, so goes back to collect it.
8 he shoots Vincent dead.
354 The 21st-Century Screenplay
9 butch and marcellus are kidnapped by rapists. butch rescues
marcellus. marcellus forgives him. butch leaves town with his
girlfriend.
DAy 1, MOrnIng
10 A young man bursts out of the bathroom and shoots six bullets
at Vincent and jules from point-blank range—but misses. jules
speculates that this is divine intervention.
11 marvin is accidentally shot. jules and Vincent go to jimmy’s to
get rid of the corpse and clean up. mr Wolf arrives at jimmy’s and
removes the corpse. Vincent and jules clean up and change clothes.
12 Vincent and jules have breakfast at a restaurant, where jules
decides to become God’s servant because he feels the bullets
missing him was divine intervention and a message from God.
13 Attempted robbery by Pumpkin and honey bunny, foiled by jules.
jules lets Pumpkin and honey bunny go. he leaves to become an
evangelist.
Quite clearly, there is no inherent chronologically rising suspense in Pulp Fic­
tion. instead, the film consists of a range of equally important stories, which
jump in time for no apparent reason, connected only by ⊙ and character.
The film ends in its chronological ⊦ and the only unifying ⊗ strand is
the story of jules, the gangster who finds God.
hOW The POrTMAnTeAu SOlveS TheSe PrObleMS
The portmanteau ⊗ is the story of jules, the gangster who finds God. inter-
estingly, it is a tightly written three-act ⊚ on the traditional topic of
perfectibility. in copybook style, the ⊛ jules is redeemed by his
experiences. A ⊚ sentence of jules’ redemption would run like this:
The ⊛ (Jules, a ruthless gangster), faced with the
disturbance (of having to execute men who double-crossed his
boss) and surprised by what seems to be divine intervention (first-
act turning point) is stopped from investigating the implications
of this by the accidental shooting by vincent of a hostage and the
dangerous and complicated disposal of the corpse. he plans to
reform, but reaches a lowest point of physical and moral danger
(second-act turning point) when he is held up at gunpoint by a
robber who normally he would execute. In the ⊝, he solves the
problem by choosing the path of good, sending the robbers away
unharmed.
Consecutive stories: Portmanteau films 355
The portmanteau works as shown in figure 46.2
Jules’ story as the portmanteau in Pulp Fiction
The film starts just before the The film rejoins Jules’ story at
second-act turning point (the its first-act turning point (the
⊛’s closest moment to failed shooting), then stays
death or despair), then goes to with it through its second and
the disturbance (where the story third acts through to its ⊝
started), stopping just before and ⊡.
the first-act turning point.
Remainder of
Pulp Fiction
Figure 46.2 The Pulp Fiction portmanteau
COulD OTher STOrIeS PrOvIDe A POrTMAnTeAu?
if jules’ story is providing a portmanteau that holds the film together, could
the other stories in Pulp Fiction provide the portmanteau instead? noticeably,
the two other stories are also classic (if tight, indeed, sometimes truncated)
three-act narratives. here are ⊚ sentences for each of the other stories.
vInCenT vegA AnD MArCelluS WAllACe’S WIFe
A gangster, Vincent (⊛), faced with having to take out mia, the sexy
wife of his jealous gangster boss (disturbance), is surprised by mia snort-
ing his stash of high-grade heroin and starting to die (first-act turning point
which compounds the problem). he responds by taking her to the home of
lance, the drug dealer. he is foiled (second-act setbacks), firstly by lance’s
delay in answering the phone, then his strong reluctance to help, then by
bickering between lance and his wife, then by lance being unable to find
his medical book. he reaches his lowest point of physical danger or despair
(second-act turning point) when his only chance of saving mia is to stab her
in the chest with a hypodermic needle full of adrenalin. he manages it and
she revives (⊝).
The gOlD WATCh
butch, a boxer (⊛), faced with accepting a bribe from marcellus to
rig a fight (disturbance which creates a problem), double-crosses marcellus
and is set to run away with the money. he is surprised (first-act turning point
356 The 21st-Century Screenplay
which compounds the problem) by the fact that his girlfriend, fabienne, has
left a watch of great sentimental value at his apartment. he goes back to get
it and is foiled initially by Vincent, whom he shoots dead, then by marcel-
lus, who pursues him, causing him first to have a serious car crash, then
to be shot at and wrestled with (second-act series of action setbacks, often
triggered by the ⊣, but also by fate, accident etc.) until at his low-
est point of physical danger or despair (second-act turning point), he ends
up with marcellus in a cellar with three sexual perverts who plan to rape
him. he fights back, managing to escape. in the ⊝, he goes back to help
marcellus, the man he hated, robbed, and was about to fight to the death. he
saves marcellus, who lets him off the hook. he goes off happily, keeping his
freedom, the money, and his girlfriend.
WhICh POrTMAnTeAu?
Would the film still have worked if either of these stories had been used to
open and conclude the film, using the structural breakdown shown by the
jules story? Would the film have had the same satisfactory closure?
here is how each of the stories could have been used as the portmanteau.
With the gold watch as the portmanteau, the film could have opened with
the perverted gun shop owner and his friend, Zed, getting the sexual devi-
ant out of his cage. it could then have gone back to the disturbance—where
butch is given his instructions by marcellus—then be put aside until all the
other stories had been told, to return in its entirety starting at the first-act
turning point—that is, the point at which butch discovers the watch has been
left behind. The closure would have been butch walking free.
Alternatively, using Vincent Vega and marcellus Wallace’s wife as the
portmanteau, the film could have opened with lance, the drug dealer, and his
wife bickering over the missing medical book and then getting out a syringe.
it could then have returned to Vincent and jules talking about the foot mas-
sage prior to their morning reprisal raid. Then, after all the other stories had
concluded, it could return to the restaurant and the first-act turning point,
which is when mia takes the heroin at her home. it could then proceed unin-
terrupted until the ⊝, in which Vincent stabs mia with the hypodermic
needle and she revives. The pleasing closure would be when she and Vincent
return to marcellus’ house and mia tells Vincent the tomato joke from her
pilot television show, Fox Force Five.
These two alternatives for a portmanteau seem quite possible. each pro-
vides a structure with satisfying closure. however, it is hard to say whether
either could have been made to work as well as jules’ story which, with its
Consecutive stories: Portmanteau films 357
moral edge, passes interesting commentary on living and dying by the sword,
and presents a larger moral for the film as a whole. Also, as writer– director
lisa ohlin points out, jules actually changes, so he is a ⊛ who
moves, rather than simply survives.
ADDIng A FrAMe WITh A TWIST: PuMPkIn AnD hOney
bunny
i said earlier that Pulp Fiction starts just before jules’ second-act turning
point, where jules is faced with death in the form of Pumpkin pointing a gun
at him. more precisely, the film starts a little before that, with Pumpkin and
honey bunny discussing and starting an armed holdup. does the film actu-
ally need that ⊕? Why didn’t the film simply start with jules sitting at a
table and two unknown robbers trying to take marcellus Wallace’s briefcase?
it could, but starting on a discussion between two bizarre characters like
Pumpkin and honey bunny and going to titles with the start of their robbery
attempt means that the film’s ⊨ is startling and its ⊥ is even more
unpredictable because jules is not shown in the ⊨ so there is no warn-
ing that jules will be involved in the robbery. unpredictable connection is a
very powerful way to end a film. So the Pumpkin and honey bunny ⊨
is a technique to think about. Technically, we could say that the Pumpkin and
honey bunny story is actually a simple frame that encloses the portmanteau.
TO uSe PulP FICTIOn AS A TeMPlATe
Work out powerfully suspenseful three-act stories, using truncation if neces-
sary. decide on the portmanteau ⊗, choosing one with a final twist, but be
aware that this twist will be taken to be the message of the film. Consider a
simple frame (like Pumpkin and honey bunny) to add to the pleasure of all
the stories coming together at the end. Combine the stories, employing the
portmanteau second-act turning point to disturbance ⊨.
Portmanteau 3: City of god
City of God is a biographical film set in the slums of rio de janeiro. really,
it is a violent coming-of-age story, as rocket, the young hero, moves from
puberty to manhood in a period of gang warfare that initially threatens to
engulf him but that ultimately permits him to escape the ghetto into a new
life as a photojournalist.
it contains a series of consecutive complete or almost complete stories,
each with their own titles. At base, it is a ‘stories walking into the picture’ film
that uses a portmanteau formed by rocket’s life story. just as The Circle dealt
358 The 21st-Century Screenplay
with the cycle of exploitation of women in iran, so City of God deals with the
cycle of violence that sees a boy gangster rise to prominence only to be shot
dead by the next generation of boy gangsters whom, ironically, he created.
City of God is actually a double biography. in following rocket, it also
follows his boy–gangster counterpart, a mentor ⊣ called lil’ Z. lil’
Z is a vicious sociopath who shapes rocket’s life. both of them share the
same disturbance and ⊝, because rocket’s final success in his ⊝
is actually created by the exposure and death of lil’ Z. This makes the film
a very handy template for double biographies, particularly biopics about
charismatic individuals who might be trivialised or in some way reduced
if seen from the inside. for example, if you were writing a biography of a
great composer or painter you could tell that story in parallel with the life of
an ‘everyman’ ⊛, thus maintaining the mentor’s mystique. Another
form that you could use here, as we’ve seen, is case history flashback, as in
Citizen Kane and Amadeus.
The POrTMAnTeAu
The film opens just before rocket’s second-act turning point, which shows us
rocket accidentally trapped between lil’ Z’s gang of armed ghetto kids and
an armed gang of police, all guns aimed at him. We then flash back to the
disturbance of both young men’s stories. next, the film proceeds through the
interwoven childhood and adolescence of rocket and lil’ Z (including sto-
ries of other ghetto inhabitants who touched their lives) before returning to
the ⊨ ⊕ and speeding through rocket’s third-act battle to win and
ultimately to the ⊝, which is rocket escaping being shot, then taking
the photographs which show lil’ Z bribing the police and being assassinated,
photographs that will assure his career as a photojournalist.
The WeAker ChArACTer IS CleArly The ⊛
remarkably, City of God manages to keep a passive observer at the centre
of the action. lil’ Z’s story is clearly the more powerful of the two. by con-
trast, rocket’s story at base is actually an almost clichéd coming-of-age tale,
complete with comic awkwardness and the obligatory seduction by an older
woman. As lil’ Z sinks further and further into shocking violence, rocket
experiences unrequited love, unsuccessful attempts at crime, and ultimately
seduction. it would have been very easy for this charming but bland story to
have been overshadowed by lil’ Z’s story. Alternatively, the film could have
turned into an uneasy fit of two genres, gangster and whimsical coming-
of-age. in fact, the two stories and two genres are interwoven to create a
Consecutive stories: Portmanteau films 359
very powerful, cohesive film in which rocket’s story, although by far the less
dramatic of the two, is in the forefront and actually pulls lil’ Z’s story along.
rocket is kept at the centre by a variety of structural devices.
rOCkeT IS kePT In The FOreFrOnT vIA FlAShbACk AnD
⊞-Over
All of the flashbacks are seen from rocket’s point of view, usually with
rocket’s ⊞-over, even if they involve events that rocket could not have
witnessed. An audience will always feel that the person having the flashback
is the ⊛ (particularly if there is ⊞-over, as there is here), hence
the flashbacks establish and maintain rocket as ⊛, even though
he is passive and often absent. Astonishingly, even when rocket himself has
been out of the story for some time, when he returns there is no jolt.
rOCkeT’S STOry PullS AlOng lIl’ z’S STOry
The trick here is that almost all of the major players literally walk into rocket’s
story before going on to become crucial in lil’ Z’s story (this is how City of
God is a ‘stories walking into the picture’ film at base). The pattern goes:
1 Characters first appear in rocket’s story.
2 rocket talks about them.
3 Their history is shown in flashback.
4 They play major roles in lil’ Z’s story.
This has the effect of putting and keeping rocket centre-stage. Thus, the film’s
first flashback happens when rocket is caught between lil’ Z’s gang and the
police. he then announces that to explain how he is always caught in the mid-
dle he has to, in his words, ‘go back to the ⊤’, and we flashback to him,
aged about ten playing a soccer game, as goalie, his arms akimbo exactly as
they are in the ⊨ scenes as he is stuck between gangsters and police.
The soccer game is interrupted by lil’ Z (at that stage about ten and called lil’
dice) and his inseparable friend benny, also aged ten. The game is interrupted
again, this time by three young men, with rocket explaining in ⊞-over that
he also needs to tell the story of these three, who are known as the Tender Trio.
he tells us that they include his own older brother Goose and benny’s older
brother Shaggy (this is another way of connecting rocket with benny and lil’
Z). We then see the Tender Trio first robbing a gas cylinder truck, then, at lil’
Z’s instigation, robbing a brothel, while lil’ Z keeps watch. unbeknown at this
stage to both the audience and the Tender Trio, lil’ Z brutally murders every-
one in the brothel, letting the Tender Trio take the blame.
360 The 21st-Century Screenplay
if we stop for a moment and look closely at this section, rocket does not
participate in most of the action and when he is involved, it is marginally—as
a bit player. really, this is not his story at all. however, the way flashback and
⊞-over are used make it his story. if we were to ask the audience ‘Whose
story is this?’ the answer would be, unequivocally, ‘rocket’s story’. This is
very clever indeed. by entering a story via a minor character’s flashback (with
⊞-over) you can make the minor character the film’s ⊛.
The pattern repeats itself throughout the film. When rocket gets older,
he joins a group of beachgoers. The group includes Angelica, with whom
he is smitten, and her rich boyfriend itiago. When Angelica asks him to buy
her drugs, rocket has to literally walk into the apartment of the drug dealer
Carrot. This triggers a flashback into how the apartment fell into the hands
of drug dealers—again, events that rocket neither saw nor was involved in.
later, when lil’ Z arrives at Carrot’s apartment, rocket tells lil’s Z’s story
from the murderous brothel episode onwards up to his arrival at the apart-
ment. Still later, Knockout ned, who will become lil’ Z’s main adversary
along with Carrot, is first introduced in rocket’s story.
Clever COnneCTIOnS beTWeen STOrIeS
City of God is essentially episodic. it consists of a portmanteau ⊗ inside
which complete stories run consecutively, often with titles. What prevents
the film from becoming jumpy—what counteracts a stop-start effect—is two
things. The first is that when a lil’ Z story finishes, the next story we jump to
is the next instalment of rocket’s story, with rocket a bit older each time. This
instantly creates interest, at the same time smoothing over the time gap. The
other clever connection technique is that vital information from each story is
not revealed during that story, but is withheld to create mystery, being revealed
only later on. Thus, we only learn long after the event (in flashbacks) that lil’ Z
not only shot dead all the occupants of the brothel, but also murdered Goose.
This has the effect of inserting useful suspense. mysteries and puzzles pay
off pleasingly as we go, tying together past and present, keeping our interest.
maintaining interest in these long stories is difficult, so the audience needs
rewards. you can’t rely on a final twist for all your film’s mystery because it is
too far off (this was a problem in Winged Creatures, aka Fragments).
CreATIng PACe by STeAlIng JeOPArDy FrOM FurTher
AlOng In The STOry
The other trick City of God uses to fill in backstory dynamically is Memento’s
technique—whereby the action jumps forward in time to a dramatic moment,
Consecutive stories: Portmanteau films 361
then goes into flashback to fill in the missing material (see pp. 322–3). it’s a
kind of clawing forward movement—you hook into a later part of the story
and haul the rest of the story up to join it. it’s just another instance of the clas-
sic technique of successful non-linear films—stealing jeopardy from later in
the story to pump up potentially slow material.
InTrODuCIng neW ChArACTerS lATe In The FIlM
City of God makes a feature of introducing new characters even very late into
the film. in a conventional linear film this usually frustrates the audience.
but in City of God it works; in fact, it makes the film actively interesting
because it gives the sense of events unfolding as in real life. Why does it
work? Perhaps because we know that the film is about rocket and lil’ Z’s
parallel lives and the new characters must be a part of those stories, not a
new departure.
CITy OF gOD AS A TeMPlATe
As with Pulp Fiction, work out all of the stories. your portmanteau will be
the life story of your ⊛. Work out the internal jumps back and forth
between stories to fill in clues and steal jeopardy. The pattern in City of God,
as we have seen, is that characters first appear in rocket’s story, then rocket
talks about them, then their history is shown in flashback with ⊞-over,
then they play major roles in lil’ Z’s story.
The Memento trick involves first introducing characters in the ⊦ of
action, then flashing back and, with ⊞-over, quickly summarising their
past and how they came to be where they now are, then returning to the
present.
Portmanteau 4: buttoners (portmanteau plus
coda)
like City of God, Buttoners uses a portmanteau and visits it during the course
of the film. however, Buttoners has a kind of coda, extra story material, in
which the ghost of the pilot who flew the plane that bombed hiroshima
comes to Prague on the night of the film’s action and is interviewed by a
radio talk show host. The idea of continuing a portmanteau story after the
rest of the film has finished has interesting possibilities and provides a useful
template.
362 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Portmanteau 5: The butterfly effect (different
perspectives)
like Run Lola Run, The Butterfly Effect is about chaos theory and belongs to
the same sub-category: different perspectives. Told chronologically, the story
would be episodic and jumpy, but with a portmanteau frame it runs smoothly.
in chronological ⊟, the story runs as follows.
evan is a little boy who experiences blackouts. in particular, he blacks out
during three events in his childhood and adolescence that he knows were
shocking, but cannot fully remember and cannot get information about
(notice the triplication). The action jumps forward several years to evan aged
twenty-one, now a punkish, A-grade college student. evan discovers that if
he reads entries in his childhood journal about the shocking events, he can
physically revisit them in the past, reliving in full what happened. This is his
first-act turning point (what the scenario is ‘about’; also, an entry into another
world, and the surprise that creates the obstacle that drives the rest of the film).
in the present, he visits two of the three childhood friends who were
involved in the shocking events. Two are traumatised, while the third has
only recently come out of juvenile jail. immediately after his visit, one sui-
cides (the film’s ⊢).
As a cigarette burn that happened in his visit to the past has remained
on his body in the present, he reasons that he might be able to change his
friends’ current unhappy present lives by changing the past. he deliberately
triggers a series of returns to the past by reading the journal. but the changes
that he makes create different but equally bad consequences in the present
for his friends, his mother and his twenty-one-year-old self.
After his fourth horribly unsuccessful attempt to fix the past (second-act
turning point, first step), he realises he is the cause of everyone’s problems
(decision to fight back), sets out to kill himself in utero (battle to win), and
does so (⊝) thereby giving his loved ones a happy life (⊡).
TyPICAl COnSeCuTIve STOrIeS FeATureS
The film involves a small group of people involved in criminal events, time
jumps, a ticking clock and philosophical content (chaos theory). it also fea-
tures the following:
DIFFerenT verSIOnS OF The SAMe evenT
We keep visiting the same events, with crucial new information or changes
each time. notice that each repetition, unlike Vantage Point, contains a lot of
new material.
Consecutive stories: Portmanteau films 363
TrIPlICATIOn
There are three shocking events in the ⊛’s childhood, each of which
involves a blackout, and three childhood friends. he has three other child-
hood blackouts, one in which he has a premonition of his future role as
harmer of lives, and two others in which he has returned from the future
trying to change events. however, the film contains many more versions of
the main characters, because all are different in each of evan’s different lives.
The POrTMAnTeAu
The film opens on the second ⊜ of evan’s second-act turning point, when
evan has decided to fight back, but we don’t know how or why. We see him
frantically trying to hide himself in an office. The first flashback, in classic
parallel ⊚ style, is to the disturbance: evan as a small child showing
odd symptoms.
in the final moments of the film, we see the ⊨ office ⊕ again,
then are given the typical rosebud twist, which is that his form of fighting
back is to kill himself to free his mother and friends to lead happy lives.
The film has a very long set-up and evan’s decision to change the past
happens exactly halfway through, at 49 minutes, ⊢, after a suicide.
Surprisingly, the section with time jumps makes up only half of the film.
The buTTerFly eFFeCT AS A TeMPlATe
replicating The Butterfly Effect’s template exactly would give you only a copy
of the film. however, The Butterfly Effect could be used as a template for
something other than a time-travel film. for example, one could imagine a
film that set up a story in the past (say, a murder, partially witnessed by the
victim’s young daughter) with the action then jumping forward twenty or
thirty years to when the child was interviewing murder suspects and get-
ting different versions of the same event, which we would see in flashback.
This might trigger the daughter’s incomplete memories, which became more
coherent as the film progressed. This would give you a film a bit like Waltz
with Bashir (although Waltz with Bashir does not have a section at the start
where we see the past: instead; the past is assembled as the film proceeds).
if you were using The Butterfly Effect as a template in this instance, you
should:
•
be careful to make the first-act turning point the first flashback; that
is, the first step back into the past (in my example this might well be
the first time the adult ⊛ realises that as a child she saw the
murder)
364 The 21st-Century Screenplay
•
be careful to choose the content of the first flashback carefully, so that
it triggers the decision that involves more investigation into the past (in
my example, the adult, like evan, would decide to investigate further)
•
be aware that the first flashback (and whatever triggers it) needs to
answer the question: ‘What is the ⊗ of the film about?’ and will be
the obstacle that drives the rest of the film
Portmanteau 6: Amores Perros (centre-split
portmanteau)
like several of the more successful non-linear parallel ⊚ films, Amores
Perros was written by Guillermo Arriaga. With its central premise of the con-
sequences of one event, it is actually a fractured version of the consecutive
stories form used by Go! and Atonement (different consequences). like them,
it uses three stories (notice the triplication).
unlike City of God, Pulp Fiction and the other portmanteau films we’ve
been looking at, the portmanteau ⊗ in Amores Perros does not frame the
whole film. it opens and returns in the chronological ⊦ of the three
stor ies (so we can call it a centre-split portmanteau). it is also different in
that it uses the device we’ve seen in thwarted dream flashback, the triggering
crisis, which is when one ⊕ has a different job in different stories.
in chronological time, the three stories in Amores Perros happen one after
the other. however, the film starts in its chronological ⊦. its triggering
crisis is a car crash which massively affects three different people. The car
crash is the second-act turning point in story 1 (the story about octavio,
the driver who causes the crash), the disturbance of story 2 (the story about
Valeria, a badly injured victim), and the first-act turning point of story 3 (the
story of a Chivo, a bystander who rescues Cofy, octavio’s dog).
After the crash, the film goes back in time and tells story 1 (‘octavio and
Susana’) from normality/disturbance up to the crash. it then tells the injured
victim’s story (‘Valeria and daniel’) from its start before the accident through
to its ⊝ and ⊡. finally, it tells the bystander’s story (‘el Chivo
and maru’) from before its disturbance through to its ⊝ and ⊡.
The third act of ‘octavio and Susana’ happens in ‘el Chivo and maru’ and
snippets of the two later stories, particularly el Chivo and maru, appear in
‘octavio and Susana’ prior to the car crash.
ChArACTerISTICS OF COnSeCuTIve STOrIeS FIlMS
like all consecutive stories films, Amores Perros concerns a small group
within society, deals with criminal behaviour (also death and violence),
Consecutive stories: Portmanteau films 365
Story 1, ‘Octavio and Susana’
Story 2, ‘Valeria and Daniel’
Story 3, ‘El Chivo and Maru’
Car crash that opens the film
and appears in all stories
AAmmoorreess PPeerrroross opens on a car crash (a triggering crisis, as in
double ⊚ flashback) which is the second-act turning point in ‘Octavio
and Susana’, the disturbance in ‘Valeria and Daniel’, and the first-act turning point in
‘El Chivo and Maru’. Then, just as in double ⊚ flashback, the film jumps back to the
disturbance of the story that opened it, ‘Octavio and Susana’, and tells it up to the car crash.
The film then continues, first with ‘Valeria and Daniel’ (from its start before the crash to its
finish), and then with the third story, ‘El Chivo and Maru’, from just before its first-act turning
point to the end of the film. The third act and ⊝ of ‘Octavio and Susana’ happen
during the other two stories. Moments from the second and third stories appear in
‘Octavio and Susana’ before the crash.
Figure 46.3 The structure of Amores Perros
is didactic, involves stories on the same ⊙ (dogs influencing humans
involved in troubled love affairs, often unrequited love), utilises triplication
(three stories), uses twists, and has stories connected by time and place.
The STOrIeS
OrIgInAlITy AnD PATTernIng
The three stories in Amores Perros are all extremely original, with surprising
twists and turns, risk and emotion. none is predictable and each would be
capable of forming the basis of a viable feature film in its own right. The two
street stories have extremely high jeopardy, with their domestic and street
violence and gory scenes of dog fighting. ‘Valeria and daniel’ involves a vio-
lent injury but has lesser jeopardy and no crime.
note that each of the three stories has a relationship line involving a
human love and an action line involving a dog which somehow brings about
disaster, usually to the relationship. As usual, the action line permits the rela-
tionship line to happen. note that the most vividly original stories are the
366 The 21st-Century Screenplay
action-line stories. really, love is love, so what creates a highly original love
story is essentially the action line because it forces love to find new ways or
to be damaged in new ways. if you are using this model, spend time creating
highly original, thematically linked action lines, with clever twists and turns.
PATTernS AnD rhyThMS
Guillermo Arriaga deliberately created a rhythm of progression between the
stories. The first story, ‘octavio and Susana’, is about young people and hap-
pens mostly before the crash. The ⊦ story, ‘Valeria and daniel’, is about
somewhat older people and happens for the most part immediately after the
crash. The final story is an old man’s love for his estranged daughter, and it
happens for the most part after the crash. The first story causes the second
and third.
The three stories all loop back from the car crash to their normality and
play through. The third act of ‘octavio and Susana’ does not happen after the
car crash ⊕ returns. it is visited and concluded later in the film.
Strong three-act structures
Arriaga consciously ends scenes and jumps stories on moments of high
emotion, meaning that in practice he often jumps on turning points in the
three-act structure, as turning points are moments of high emotion. it’s inter-
esting to look at what strong three-act structures the three stories are.
OCTAvIO AnD SuSAnA
ACTIOn lIne
disturbance: Susana accidentally lets out Cofy, who kills
jarocho’s dog.
first-act turning point: octavio decides to put Cofy in dog fights to
raise money to run away with Susana.
Second-act turning point: The car chase, impact.
⊝: octavio is seriously injured, his friend jorge is
killed, Cofy is taken by el Chivo.
relATIOnShIP lIne
disturbance: When Susana tells octavio she is pregnant, he
asks her to run away with him.
first-act turning point: octavio decides to put Cofy in dog fights to
raise money to run away with Susana (notice
that this is the same as in action line).
Consecutive stories: Portmanteau films 367
Second-act turning point: Susana does not turn up at the bus station the
first time.
⊝: Susana does not turn up at the bus station the
second time.
vAlerIA AnD DAnIel
ACTIOn lIne
disturbance: Valeria goes in her car to buy wine to celebrate
the first meal she and richie will have in their
new flat.
first-act turning point: Valeria’s leg is seriously injured in the car crash
(which means she is at home and richie her dog
gets trapped under the floorboards).
Second-act turning point: Valeria is found unconscious, after damaging
her leg trying to rescue richie.
⊝: Valeria’s leg is amputated, richie is found alive.
relATIOnShIP lIne
disturbance: Valeria and daniel move into a flat together.
first-act turning point: The phone rings but nobody speaks, this trig-
gers a quarrel between them.
Second-act turning point: daniel telephones his wife, implying that he is
having second thoughts.
⊝: daniel brings Valeria back to the flat. how long
will they stay together?
el ChIvO AnD MAru
ACTIOn lIne
disturbance: el Chivo accepts an assassination assignment
from a man who wants his brother killed.
first-act turning point: el Chivo is stopped from the assassination by
the car crash. he rescues Cofy, octavio’s dog.
Second-act turning point: The dog Cofy kills el Chivo’s dogs, sending el
Chivo into despair and making him reassess his
life and his role as an assassin.
⊝: el Chivo leaves the two brothers to sort out their
own problems, rejecting his role as assassin.
368 The 21st-Century Screenplay
relATIOnShIP lIne
disturbance: el Chivo reads in a newspaper that his wife is
dead, decides to make contact with his daughter.
first-act turning point: he goes to the funeral and is told by his sister-
in-law to stay away.
Second-act turning point: Cofy the dog kills el Chivo’s dogs, sending
el Chivo into despair, making him not only
reassess his life and his role as an assassin but
also realise that he can’t face his daughter.
⊝: el Chivo leaves a message on his daughter’s
answering machine, saying that he will come
back when he has the courage to look her in the
eye.
uSIng AMOreS PerrOS AS A TeMPlATe
Plan three high-jeopardy, highly original stories, connected thematically
and also in time and place by the same catastrophic event. The pattern is
a second- act turning point preview flashback story connected to two con-
secutive stories by the same ⊕, which is the disturbance in one and the
first-act turning point in the other. make the action lines cause the relation-
ship lines to play out as they do. notice how each story loops back after the
car crash to its own normality, its start.
Danger areas of the centre-split portmanteau
A centre-split frame is dangerous to use because it ends in the film’s ⊦,
and a frame that ends in the ⊦ of a film will always cause a change of
gear and can easily create an anticlimax or a disjunction. This is fine if you
want the film to have a distinct change of pace and gear—as was intended
in Amores Perros, where the film leaves mexico’s slum streets and violent
criminals and goes indoors in a wealthy area to tell a psychological drama in
contrast—but not if you want to maintain the same pace. if you don’t want
a change of pace (and the consequent problem of trying to regain pace once
you’ve slowed the film right down, a hard act to pull off) you will need to
work hard to energise the stories that follow the return of the frame.
Bad Education is a film that shows disjunction in the ⊦ at the point
where the portmanteau frame ends. This is because Bad Education takes a
different direction after the portmanteau ends: really, it becomes a new film.
in contrast, Amores Perros (and as we shall see in the next chapter, homer’s
Odyssey) sets up later stories within the portmanteau story. in Amores Perros,
Consecutive stories: Portmanteau films 369
Chivo, with his junk cart and dogs, is set up very early on in Octavio and
Susanna.
hence, to prevent disjunction and create momentum, try to refer to what
will happen after the centre-split portmanteau has finished before it has
finished. Another way to prevent disjunction in two part stories like Bad
Education might be to use fractured tandem (see pp. 376–408, 440–1).
Chapter 47
Consecutive stories: Fixing
journey stories with a
portmanteau (Homer’s Odyssey)
I have gIven homer’s Odyssey a chapter of its own because, although
it is not a film, it uses a specific kind of portmanteau that I think can create
cohesion and build suspense in modern journey films that are in danger of
fragmenting into episodes. It may also be useful for an episodic, epic feature, or
for film trilogies or Tv miniseries. It brilliantly conceals inherent weaknesses
such as slow set-ups, episodic stories, time jumps and multiple protagonists. It
might make the Odyssey more immediate if you think of the gods as a gang of
modern gangsters who combine immense power with petulance and perverse
cruelty, and of odysseus as a flawed man caught up with gangsters.
While conventional screenwriting theory always assumes that journeys
are linear and chronological, the iconic journey story of Western culture,
homer’s Odyssey is non-linear, opens in the ⊦ then jumps to the end,
involves thwarted dream flashback and employs multiple protagonists.
nobody quite knows why the Odyssey has this particular non-linear struc-
ture. my hunch is that it uses non-linearity tricks to fix up its inherent ⊗
problems because, told chronologically, it is episodic, unsuspenseful and
meandering, with a lengthy, low-jeopardy set-up, tangential stories and big
gaps in time.
my guess is that there are probably only so many ways to hold a live audi-
ence, and the problems that arriaga or scorsese face in telling episodic or
exposition-heavy pieces such as Amores Perros, 21 Grams or Goodfellas are
the same as those faced by whoever created the Odyssey (and the many other
non-linear epics from all around the world), and have been solved in the
same way.
homer’s Odyssey uses a centre-split frame but, unlike Amores Perros, this
framing ⊕ does not appear in more than one story, performing a differ-
ent job in each. Instead, after the ⊨ ⊟ (which opens midway
through the action) the Odyssey jumps from what is happening on mount
370
Consecutive stories: Fixing journey stories with a portmanteau 371
olympus to what is happening to odysseus’ wife and son, who are hav-
ing problems at home as they wait for him to arrive. This adds enormous
energy to the story because we, the audience, know how urgently odysseus
is needed at home. By contrast, when the Odyssey is told in a linear form (as
in O Brother, Where Art Thou?), with the wife and son not introduced until
the end of the story, the result is an episodic story lacking in energy and
suspense. The trio of escaped convicts ricochets charmingly but aimlessly
from adventure to adventure and only at the end of the film, when Ulysses,
the george Clooney character, finds out that his wife is about to get married,
is there any suspense, anything really at stake. Imagine the increase in pace
and jeopardy if we, but not Ulysses, had known at the start that his wife was
about to get married. and imagine if we also saw one of his young children
wandering off looking for him, with a murderous psychopath pursuing the
child, intent on murder—which is what happens in the Odyssey.
If you tell the Odyssey in its non-linear form, suddenly the journey
becomes an energising force in itself, full of suspense, jeopardy and impetus.
The meandering episodic quality disappears, because odysseus’ adventures
from leaving Troy until he leaves the island where he was for so long kept
a prisoner, are told only in parenthesis, in flashback, as in the present we
impatiently wait for him to get the new ship and new crew that will permit
him to get home and prevent disaster. additionally, telling the predicament
of Penelope and the story of Telemachus, odysseus’ son, before odysseus
enters means first, that the story is able to include dual protagonists, sec-
ond that Telemachus’ story invests odysseus’ journey with new urgency and
finally that once odysseus’ story finally starts it can proceed uninterrupted
to its ⊝, thereby preventing loss of pace and pulling the whole story
forward with enormous momentum. This is exactly what happens with Jules’
story in Pulp Fiction.
Can a story that is very slow to start be a good story? In conventional
⊚, usually no, particularly if the ⊛ is not established earlier.
The audience will fall asleep. In non-linear, yes. some very good stories are
necessarily slow to start because either:
•
the ⊛ is an innocent gathering experience from mentors (as
in biography—we looked at this earlier in Goodfellas, where a centre-
split preview flashback structure prevents slowness)
•
it is a mystery story, and clues have to be set up
•
the ⊛ is on a journey where all the jeopardy is at the end
•
some stories (such as 21 Grams) have their poignancy in a normality
that can never be regained
370
372 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Using the Odyssey as a template
Below, I break down the Odyssey, firstly into its chronological order (as far
as that’s possible, since it starts to run two stories very early on) then into its
non-linear order, pointing out the problems with the chronological version
and showing how brilliantly the non-linear version fixes these. notice the
detective story element that non-linearity provides.
THe OdySSey: CHrOnOlOgiCal verSiOn
1 odysseus leaves Troy and has adventures, including blinding
the Cyclops Polyphemus, son of Poseidon, god of the sea, which
makes Poseidon his enemy. (Poor start to the story because lengthy
and episodic. No urgency to get home, therefore no suspense or
momentum. Some tension via Poseidon.)
2 odysseus finds out from ghosts in the underworld that his wife
is being pressured to marry, but then is shipwrecked on Calypso’s
island. (Urgency is created but fizzles out because the journey has
stopped.)
3 odysseus lives with Calypso for several years. (Long, irrelevant.
Stops the journey ⊗ dead.)
4 at the end of this time, athene asks Zeus to let odysseus leave
Calypso and return home. (There is a hiatus here, a jolt, as the
journey story starts again. As we have a new ⊛, Athene, it
feels like a new story.)
5 athene goes to odysseus’ home, where Penelope, odysseus’ wife,
is being harried to re-marry. (This is an interesting episode in
itself, but Odysseus, who was our ⊛ for a long time, has
disappeared. We have new characters and story—Athene, Penelope
and Telemachus.)
6 Without Penelope’s knowledge, Telemachus sets off to find
his father. he has adventures. (This is a new story with a new
⊛, Telemachus, which causes a disjunction. Where is
Odysseus, our original ⊛? Whose story is this? Will
Poseidon injure Telemachus as revenge for the blinding of Poseidon’s
son, the Cyclops?)
7 athene goes back to gods, again asks Zeus to let odysseus leave
Calypso and return home. (Repetition. Has a slowing effect.)
8 odysseus is allowed to leave. (It’s a jolt to come back to Odysseus.
We’d almost forgotten him.)
9 Poseidon, odysseus’ enemy, whips up a storm. odysseus is
Consecutive stories: Fixing journey stories with a portmanteau 373
shipwrecked on an island naked, as sole survivor. (Interesting,
exciting, informative.)
10 odysseus is asked to explain himself and tell his story. (Feels slow
and repetitious, because we have seen it.)
11 odysseus is given sailors and a ship to get home. (Good ticking
clock—but appearing much too late.)
12 odysseus arrives at his island kingdom just as wife is about to
choose a suitor. he disguises himself to get into the palace. With
Telemachus’ help, he overcomes his enemies. (Full of human
interest, action and pace, but very late in story.)
THe OdySSey in THe Order iT iS wriTTen (nOn-linear)
1 athene asks Zeus to let odysseus leave Calypso and return home.
(Who is this human hero who is interesting to dangerous beings like
the gods? Instantly creates suspense, jeopardy. Putting the gods at the
start places them firmly in the action, as an ongoing threat over and
above all Odysseus’ other problems. They are not remote, intermittent
participants.)
2 athene goes to odysseus’ home, where Penelope, odysseus’
wife, is being harried to re-marry by suitors who have taken over
the palace. his young son Telemachus is angry and humiliated.
(Ticking clock. Dramatic irony. Odysseus, this interesting mysterious
hero, needs to get home—fast! We are now emotionally invested in
Penelope and Telemachus very early in the story.)
3 Without Penelope’s knowledge, Telemachus sets off to find his
father. he has adventures. (Will Telemachus, whom we know and
care about, get to the island where Odysseus is? Will Poseidon injure
him? Dramatic irony because Odysseus does not know his son is in
danger and we do.)
4 athene goes back to gods, again asks Zeus to let odysseus leave
Calypso and return home. (Quick, let her release Odysseus and get
him back home before Penelope marries and Telemachus gets hurt!
This return visit to Zeus increases the suspense, rather than being
repetitive, as in the linear version.)
5 odysseus is allowed to leave, sets off. (Aha! Here is this Odysseus that
everyone has been talking about, and at last he’s on his way home.)
6 Poseidon, odysseus’ enemy, whips up a storm. odysseus is
shipwrecked on an island naked, as sole survivor. (Exciting
material. Odysseus is interesting, but still a mystery.)
374 The 21st-Century Screenplay
7 odysseus is asked to explain himself and tell his story. (At last,
Odysseus’ story! By now we are really interested. Notice that the
set-up for the flashback is identical to modern usage: an enigmatic
outsider returns to society asking to be admitted, and people ask him
to explain who he is. This is textbook thwarted dream flashback, with
Odysseus appearing at a point close to death as he tries to pursue his
thwarted dream; namely, to return home.)
8 odysseus leaves Troy and has adventures, including blinding
the Cyclops Polyphemus, son of Poseidon, god of the sea, which
makes Poseidon his enemy. (All told in flashback. Note: because the
urgent need for Odysseus to get home has already been set up, these
adventures do not feel aimless, hence play slow. They are happening
in parenthesis within exciting action. Withholding backstory like this
increases interest and suspense.)
9 odysseus lives with Calypso for several years. (As this is being
transmitted in parenthesis, as a flashback, the suspense holds and the
main story does not stop.)
10 odysseus is given a ship and crew to get home. (The ticking clock
going faster! Will Odysseus get home in time?)
11 odysseus arrives at his island kingdom just as his wife is about to
choose a suitor. he disguises himself to get into the palace. With his
son’s help, he overcomes his enemies.(Full of human interest, action,
pace, excitement. Ticking clock particularly suspenseful because we
have been worried about this ⊝ for so long. Good ⊝, good
closure.)
Using the Odyssey’s devices to improve slow
set-ups, central time jumps, episodic stories,
dual protagonists and journey stories
•
open your film after the slowing events (the episodic section and the
big time jump, explaining these things later in flashback).
•
To increase the tension and create interest in the ⊛, open
the story with an intriguing set-up between enormously powerful
individuals.
•
generally, if the chronological start is slow, steal jeopardy from the
⊥ or from events happening in another story elsewhere to inject
suspense and dramatic irony that will keep the audience engaged
through the slow moments.
Consecutive stories: Fixing journey stories with a portmanteau 375
•
If your main ⊛’s main quest only properly starts towards
the chronological end of the action (as in the Odyssey, for example,
where odysseus’ bid to save his wife only starts in earnest when
he finally gets back to his kingdom) consider telling a secondary
⊛’s story first as happens with Telemachus. This will
increase the stakes for the main ⊛, punch up general
suspense and permit uninterrupted momentum to ⊝ and
closure via the main ⊛’s story. It’s the trick used in Pulp
Fiction where Jules’ story, returning at its first-act turning point,
carries the film to a good ⊝.
Section 6
Fractured tandem
⊚
Chapter 48
Fractured tandem: an introduction
FIlms lIke 21 GRAmS, The Hours, Crash, Rendition, Three Burials of
melchiades Estrada and Babel use a ⊚ structure we can call ‘fractured
tandem’ because it’s like tandem ⊚ except chopped up. Instead of tell-
ing equally important stories simultaneously and in the same time frame, it
either fractures one or all of them and tells them in a non-linear way (as in
21 Grams), simultaneously tells stories from different time frames (as in The
Hours) or does both (Babel). Crash is a simpler form, with one story simply
bookending the others. In essence, Crash is a tandem film in a frame. It’s
like bookend flashback except that the film proper is an ensemble film, with
multiple narratives, not a one-hero model, and the frame is being used to
manipulate the audience in a way typical of fractured tandem.
guillermo arriaga
as so many fractured tandem films have been written by the extraordinar-
ily brilliant writer guillermo arriaga (21 Grams, Babel, Three Funerals of
melchiades Estrada) who also wrote the consecutive stories film Amores Per-
ros, can we really say that fractured tandem is a distinct structural model? Is it
perhaps just the modus operandi of one writer? I would say no. as we’ve seen,
story fracturing goes back at least to homer’s Odyssey and arriaga actually
376
Fractured tandem: an introduction 377
consciously employs in medias res. also, fine writers apart from arriaga are
now using fractured tandem (Paul haggis, with Crash, David hare, who
adapted The Hours—as it turns out, influenced by Amores Perros—and kelly
sane who wrote Rendition). given the increasing popularity of non-linear
⊚ on Tv and the various digital platforms we can expect more writ-
ers to do the same, all adding their own modifications and taking the form
further. meanwhile, let’s hope mr arriaga continues to forge ahead with his
extraordinary experimentation.
It should be stressed again that guillermo arriaga says that he does not
plan the non-linearity of his films on the basis of any screenwriting theories
about act structure. he says he switches stories at high emotional points,
something he has always done in his fiction, because interconnections of this
kind are an abiding interest. I don’t think the two approaches are incom-
patible. Turning points are just moments of high emotion in the three-act
structure that have been identified and given names. Curiously, he also says
that he has a innate sense of direction which means he never gets lost, even in
a city that is new to him. Perhaps this mental facility for navigation translates
into his ability to imagine and manipulate interconnected narratives—sepa-
rate journeys—happening across time and space.
a fix for films that would not work in
conventional ⊚?
as well as being an excellent way to transmit multiple ⊚ films on
the ⊙ of consequences or unlikely and (often tragic) accidents and
coincidences, amazingly the particular kind of non-linearity that we see in
fractured tandem seems to permit good and powerful films to be made out
of content that would not work in conventional chronological linear nar-
rative and also (even more exciting), appears to provide a way of fixing
problem films. It can:
•
permit the successful telling of exposition-heavy stories and stories
with a truncated ⊪; that is, stories that have no real ‘⊦’
•
create connection between disparate stories that otherwise would
present as two or three connected but separate ‘films’, sometimes
even genres
•
remove the hiatus in stories that have a major time jump in the
⊦ of the action
•
pump up energy levels in dark and depressing stories
•
turn what would be a predictable and/or preaching film into a
suspenseful detective story
376
378 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Fascinatingly, fractured tandem seems to prove that certain story material
that does not fit the conventional paradigm can still be effectively told, as
long as the stories are split up and reconstituted in such a way that the audi-
ence gets a powerful start, an interesting ⊧, and a ⊝. In other
words, pace, connection, meaning and closure can be artificially created in
stories that do not naturally have them, in some cases simply by rearranging
them. Instead of linearity and a rising three-act structure giving you these
things, non-linearity does it.
a detective story that plays on dread
Fractured tandem achieves its magic through creating a detective story based
on dread of death or violence—often death or violence that either does not
happen, or happens in an unexpected way. although it sometimes uses a
red herring to do this (as in The Hours), it mostly creates the dread just by
rearrang ing its often predictable or slow story material to set up an expec-
tation of violence and/or death—and we wait for it to happen. David hare
relates that the preview audience for The Hours, asked to define the film’s
genre, said ‘it was most like a thriller because you’re trying to understand
what happens and pit your wits against the film as it’s revealed.’ That’s exactly
the effect most fractured tandem needs to create to overcome the potential
predictability of its story content. Fracturing a story in the right way means
that every time the film changes scenes the audience has to act as detective,
rapidly working out which story and time frame the film is now in. Properly
done, this instantly inserts interest and suspense.
The threat of death appears early on
violent death or the threat of it always appears at the start of these films,
so that from the earliest moments the audience is powerfully engaged both
emotionally and intellectually by the most intense and gripping kind of
mystery with the highest jeopardy: a whodunit. suddenly the viewing expe-
rience is not only about the philosophical side of the film, which is often
quite intellectual and potentially dry (for example, the meaning of life and
of death, of consequences, of accident and coincidence). Instead, viewing is
an emotional experience, with audiences stirred up by compassion and fear
as they try to work out who died, who or what was responsible, the manner
of death and all of the other brainteasers that come with murder mysteries.
21 Grams opens just prior to an attempt at revenge killing and soon jumps
to a ⊕ in which a central character is dying horribly. Crash opens just
before the discovery of a corpse, as does Three Burials. Rendition shows a
Fractured tandem: an introduction 379
bomb exploding in a bustling market square and in The Hours, virginia
Woolf suicides. Babel, too, has a tourist accidentally shot (although this is
some way into the film).
21 grams is full of death references
guillermo arriaga says he is obsessed with the impact of death on the living.
analysing 21 Grams, I created a ⊕-by-⊕ chart of the film and, look-
ing for reasons why the film had such energy even though all its stories were
relentlessly gloomy and all had huge exposition sections (factors that should
have slowed it right down), I went through the chart highlighting in red all of
the scenes that related in some way to death.
The chart was covered in red. rarely do three scenes in 21 Grams pass
without a suggestion of death. In some parts of the film there are as many as
five consecutive scenes involving death or the threat of death. similar charts
for Babel, Three Burials, Crash, Rendition and The Hours show the action
regularly returning to death or the threat of death. The effect of this is a new
injection of emotion every time the script revisits death: a new injection, in
effect, of dread.
even more interesting is that when the expected death does not happen,
or happens to the people we least expect, the films still hold, even if, in linear
terms, the ⊥ would play as an anticlimax. Does fractured tandem have
to be about death? Probably not, but my hunch is that if you are writing
a fractured tandem film without death or the threat of it, you would need
to include strikingly original and suspenseful storylines (with good cliff-
hangers as jumping points between time frames) to keep up the energy level.
Chapter 49
Pace, connection, meaning and
closure in fractured tandem
as We’ve seen, all parallel ⊚ films struggle with pace, connec-
tion, meaning and closure. Fractured tandem struggles with them the most.
Pace
apart from Crash and possibly Rendition, none of the films we are discussing
here would have anywhere near the same energy if their stories were told in a lin-
ear way; in fact, most would probably be predictable, repetitive and anticlimactic.
This is partly because, told in a linear way, stories about ‘strangers con-
necting by accident or across time’ are inherently predictable. Telling these
stories chronologically not only means you have to set up a series of uncon-
nected normalities (people leading their uneventful lives before the accidental
encounter, something that rapidly becomes boring) but also, as the accident
gets closer, things can quickly become painfully predictable (‘he’s going to
the station and getting on the train, and look! so is she, and so is she . . . !’).
But this isn’t the only pace problem. Fascinatingly, in marked contrast
to many of the parallel ⊚ films we’ve been looking at, the individual
stories in fractured tandem films are often not three-act structures rising
suspensefully to a ⊝. They are frequently wildly uneven, with long
exposition sections, truncated middles and often anticlimactic endings. For
example, the stories of the three major characters in 21 Grams up to the acci-
dent take up more than half the film’s running time. In Babel, three of the
four stories end in anticlimax, as do two of the three stories in The Hours.
You could indeed argue that the separate stories in many fractured tan-
dem films are just one-act films with a coda, or with a new film stuck on the
end. 21 Grams could be described as three pensive, poignant one-act films
featuring three interconnected protagonists, followed by a single one-act
action–revenge blood bath. The Hours has the same combination without the
action–revenge story. Three Burials consists of one short fractured tandem
film (written from two points of view) about an accidental killing, followed
by one linear double journey film.
380
Pace, connection, meaning and closure in fractured tandem 381
This is in marked contrast to the tight, suspenseful, big-⊝ stories in
films such as Pulp Fiction, Run Lola Run, City of God and The Butterfly Effect.
remarkably, in fractured tandem films, what’s causing much of the pace is
the way the film as a whole is fractured. hence, although I have been suggest-
ing throughout this book that three-act structures are at the heart of parallel
⊚, astonishingly, fractured tandem seems often to do without them.
STrUCTUral TriCkS TO add PaCe
Death placed at the start to create dread, combined with the extreme frac-
turing of the form that forces the audience to play detective in each ⊕,
massively increases speed. additionally, fractured tandem employs the same
pace—injecting devices we’ve seen across parallel ⊚ forms; that is, the
use of the ⊝ or second-act turning point as the film’s hook (often jump-
ing back to the disturbance) and the twist ⊥.
21 Grams opens just before the second-act turning point in Jack’s story,
Paul’s unsuccessful attempt to shoot Jack. The Hours opens with virginia
Woolf’s suicide, which we take to be either the film’s horrific ⊝ or a
second-act turning point (in fact it is a red herring, but we are not to know
that). Crash opens just before the film’s ⊝. Rendition opens at the ⊝
of one story (which is simultaneously the disturbance in two other stories).
But, interestingly, not all fractured tandem films open on a second-act
turning point or ⊝. In Babel, the film starts at the disturbance of the
young boys’ story, the sale of the rifle, which has as its first-act turning point
the accidental shooting of the tourist. The Three Burials of melchiades Estrada
opens on the discovery of estrada’s corpse, which is the first-act turning point
both of Pete, melchiades’ cowboy friend and of mike, the border patrol officer,
melchiades’ killer (because, in both cases, the death is what the story is ‘about’).
arriaga’S FlaSHFOrward
much of the pace in arriaga’s fractured tandem films is created by use of a
unique and very clever pattern of flashforwards that not only pull the film
forward but conceal joins between stories and sew what are actually two une-
ven halves of the film together. another way of thinking of this flash forward
pattern is as a breaking wave. We’ll come back to this later.
Connection and meaning
1. ⊙ and meSSage
all of the stories in these films have the same ⊙ and subject matter,
namely tragic accidents or coincidental connections between strangers and
380
382 The 21st-Century Screenplay
chain reactions. overall, the films are fatalistic. each looks at accidents and
consequences in a different context; for example, in Crash, the context of race
and racism, in Three Burials, the context of loneliness, friendship and justice,
and so on.
Whereas fractured tandem’s nearest relative, tandem ⊚, is typically
didactic, socio-political and reformist, showing how a whole community is
suffering because of a faulty social system or personal failings, fractured tan-
dem is about random accidents, about, as is demonstrated so clearly in Crash,
individual strangers accidentally colliding.
Tandem ⊚ is ‘we’re all in the same boat’ (note the ‘we’) and frac-
tured tandem is ‘they’re in the wrong place, at the wrong time’ (note the
‘they’). another thematic difference is that while tandem tends to show
people acting predictably because of social mores or personal inadequacy,
fractured tandem sets out to demonstrate that nobody is all good or all
bad, that people are full of contradictions, that people are victims of ran-
dom events, and that life is full of tragic and unpredictable ironies. Crash, for
example, deliberately shows a deeply racist policeman risking his life to save
an african–american woman he had earlier deliberately humiliated, while
his non-racist partner impulsively shoots dead an african–american he mis-
judged along racist lines. In tandem ⊚, each man would have behaved
in character, because such predictable behaviour would have been exactly the
point the film was making.
FraCTUred Tandem dOeSn’T need TO be PrOFOUnd
although current fractured tandem films all seem to involve deep philosoph-
ical content, there is no reason why all films in this form have to be profound.
You might, for example, want to use fractured tandem to pump up the energy
of a simple detective story that seems too predictable, as for example, I sug-
gest on pp. 416–17 might work well for Prelude to a Kiss.
2. geOgraPHy and Time
Characters in fractured tandem are usually connected by being in the same place
at the same time. often, events happen within a short time period, like a day.
3. THe maCrO ⊗ and deaTH
Fractured tandem at the moment (and this might well change) is about chain
reactions, consequences and unlikely connections, so the macro depicts these.
The films at present are always about random or accidental death. Films such
as The Hours and Crash have a ⊙ more than a macro: ‘a woman’s whole
Pace, connection, meaning and closure in fractured tandem 383
life in a single day’ and ‘In la nobody touches you’, but in each there is the
presence of death.
4. FaCiliTaTing CHaraCTerS/CHaraCTerS COnneCTed
TO Several diFFerenT STOrieS
obviously, given the ⊙ of connection and coincidence, there is usually
a lot of character connection, including connections at one remove. In Three
Burials, the wife of the border patrol man who murders melchiades has slept
with melchiades. In Crash, the Persian family and graham the detective are
linked because graham’s brother dies in the hospital where the daughter of
the Persian family works as a nurse. similarly, graham’s brother ran down a
people smuggler, and while graham and the locksmith never meet, they are
connected through the nurse. Babel is of course centrally concerned with
connections at a remove from events (although for some audiences the con-
nection between the Japanese girl and the other stories was too tenuous).
5. ObjeCT Or naTUral evenT
Characters can be linked by an object, like the rifle in Babel, or by natural
events like the snowstorm in Crash.
Closure by means of a frame
PrOlOgUe
It’s worth noting that at the moment all fractured tandem films end with a
thought-provoking twist, and get closure by a frame, so the film comes full
circle, often to poignant effect. The film opens with a prologue and then,
in its closing moments, returns to the prologue material to create an epi-
logue, which contains the twist, so that the message we are left with is not
quite what we expected. The prologue can be a speech, text on the screen,
or action. mostly it’s quite short but sometimes it’s a ⊟ of scenes, as
in 21 Grams, where the prologue ends with Paul in hospital, saying he is in
death’s waiting room.
The prologue has three jobs: to present the ⊙ in an intriguing way, to
warn that the film will be serious, and to buy the audience’s patience. Quite
often the prologue creates a red herring, making us expect something which,
in the event, does not happen.
THe TwiST ⊥
The twist ⊥ is necessary either to insert surprise into predictable story
material or because the film is returning to where it started, so needs a
384 The 21st-Century Screenplay
surprise ⊥, or indeed a series of surprises. Rendition ends with a sur-
prising time jump. In Crash, a child miraculously escapes death, and the
identity of the corpse is a shocking surprise. In 21 Grams, Paul dies in a way
we did not expect and, surprisingly, has fathered a child. In Babel, we dread
that certain characters will die, but they do not. In The Hours, two characters
are unexpectedly linked and someone suicides, but not the person we expect.
Three Burials reveals that melchiades estrada was not what he claimed. In all
cases, the ⊥ is on the film’s ⊙, but gives us an answer out of left field.
Be aware that the audience will take the twist ⊥ to contain the film’s real
message—so be careful that it does.
ePilOgUe/⊡
While Three Burials and Babel end quite abruptly and Rendition opts for a
traditional ‘sadder but wiser man’ ⊥, 21 Grams, The Hours and Crash
each end movingly and lyrically in quite lengthy epilogue sections that appear
after the twist ⊥ and all feature death and moving speeches. 21 Grams
also revisits Chris, Jack and Paul in their separate lives before the accident, to
poignant effect. The last words are Paul’s explanation of 21 grams being the
weight of life when it leaves the body. The Hours gives us Woolf’s suicide and
⊞-over suicide note, and Crash, returning to the detective and the corpse,
talks again about alienation.
THe ePilOgUe Only wOrkS beCaUSe OF THe PrOlOgUe
Probably, almost every film is written so that the writer can write the final
scenes. The final scenes are often what drew them to the idea in the first
place. You get the strong sense in The Hours, Crash and 21 Grams that the
epilogues articulate the reason the film was written. While all three epilogues
work wonderfully well, notice that their strength derives not so much from
their powerful speeches but from the fact they are paying off what the pro-
logue set up, and paying it off in a thought-provoking, often unexpected way.
In other words, to work as well as they do, these poignant epilogues need a
clever prologue, and the prologue must be constructed with care to permit a
clever final twist to the film.
TriPliCaTiOn
It’s striking that so many fractured tandem films involve triplication, most
obviously The Three Burials of melchiades Estrada, but 21 Grams, The Hours
and Rendition all use three protagonists, while Babel has one story that trig-
gers three others. Three, as ever, seems to provide a pleasing unity.
Pace, connection, meaning and closure in fractured tandem 385
The death of the ⊪?
as we saw when discussing conventional ⊚, in the standard one hero/
one journey film the ⊦, the ⊪, is not only the longest part of
the film, but is actually the start of what the film is ‘about’ in terms of the
⊗. It contains the meat of the film. We go to Thelma and Louise to see what
happens after two women shoot a rapist. We go to Tootsie to see what hap-
pens after a man dresses up as a woman to get a role in a soap opera. notice
the ‘after’. Before that point, before the first-act turning point, we are still in
the story’s set-up. The ⊦, the ⊪, explores the characters and
themes, building suspensefully on the question set up by the first-act turn-
ing point so that we will be deeply interested in the answer to that question
provided by the ⊝.
In contrast, as we’ve seen, the stories in fractured tandem films often lack
rising suspense, are exposition-heavy, frequently have no proper ⊪
or ⊦, and, as I’ve said, seem quite often to consist of a collection of one-
act films.
as I have mentioned, people have joked that with fractured tandem I am
announcing the death of the ⊪. am I saying we can have films with
no proper ⊦? no. I’m saying that in certain cases we can create films that
have a powerful ⊤, ⊦ and end by using a fractured structure.
Fractured tandem films certainly possess a ⊦ in the sense that they
have a long central section in which their entwined narratives develop and
gradually rise suspensefully towards an energised final section and a pow-
erful ⊥. The difference between conventional and fractured tandem
structure is that the suspenseful ⊦ of a conventional linear film is the
suspenseful ⊦ of the action line, whereas in fractured tandem films
(apart from the simplest versions) the suspenseful ⊦ is created artifi-
cially by three devices:
1 by making the film’s hook a powerful ⊕ from its ⊥
2 by clever rearrangement of their stories to make a detective story
3 in arriaga’s work, by persistent flashforwards
For example, the ⊦ of The African Queen’s action line is of itself exciting
and rising in suspense, but the ⊦ of 21 Grams is suspenseful because we
know there is going to be a bloodbath and we want to know how these three
people end up in that situation.
Chapter 50
Fractured tandem: The structure
of 21 grams
21 GRAmS has aTTraCTeD such interest from writers that I deal with it
here in depth. 21 Grams would not work in linear form. It would be long, slow,
predictable and so depressing that audiences might well give up on it. Told
chronologically, the normality of the characters, so poignant in the non-linear
form, would appear as one long and apparently pointless slab as we waited for
the story to start. There would be a slowing down at the point where Chris and
Paul start to live together and a major disjunction at the point where Chris
suddenly demands revenge and the story changes style and genre from a jour-
ney of the soul to an action thriller. Finally, its ⊝—a different death and
different manner of death from the ones we expected—would probably feel,
despite the energy given it by its violence, forced and out of focus, as if it were
the ⊝ to another story (which, one could argue, it is).
But astonishingly, in its non-linear form, 21 Grams is a triumph, a land-
mark film that overcomes a central gap and blends two films from two
genres. The Three Burials of melchiades Estrada does much the same thing
(although the gap is more evident). We need to know the techniques behind
these extraordinary results.
‘Forbidden’ elements in 21 grams
21 Grams includes the following components that screenwriting theory rou-
tinely forbids.
1 It has multiple stories and multiple protagonists.
2 not only do we jump between the three stories in a non-
chronological way but each of the three stories is itself internally
fractured, presented out of chronological order.
3 It has time jumps.
4 It does not fit into the normal three-act mountain structure.
5 Its stories are exposition heavy.
6 Its three stories all have tiny, truncated second acts, none properly
developing from the first-act question; in the case of Paul and Chris,
386
Fractured tandem: The structure of 21 grams 387
the question of what happens when the man in a love relationship
has the donor heart of his partner’s dead husband, and in the case of
Jack, what happens when a man loses his faith in god and is denied
the punishment he feels he deserves.
7 Further to point 6, you could say the film is three one-act films in one
genre and a fourth one-act film in another genre, switching abruptly
from pensive poignant love story to revenge bloodbath midway,
switching not only story but genre.
8 however you try to analyse it, the film has a serious shift of direction
in the ⊦. It has what would normally be a fatal hiatus when Paul
moves in with Chris (at the point where the first story is over and the
second hasn’t started).
Switching stories
something that we tend not to notice because the film works so well is the
central split, the change to a new story, whereby the film starts out as a
thought-provoking gentle drama about grief and guilt and ends up as a mis-
sion of revenge, with shooting and a bloodbath. This is shown clearly in the
macro, which starts out as the accident and its aftermath, then becomes ‘Will
two of the affected characters kill the third?’
To see how truly strange this is, let’s look at what would happen in a con-
ventional film where, at the first-act turning point, a couple fall in love after
one has received the heart of the other’s dead spouse. normally, a set-up
like this would lead to an exploration of that story. The ⊗ would follow
through on what later happened in the love relationship. Typical ⊗ ideas
would range over things like the possibility that Chris was only in love with
Paul because he contained part of her dead husband, or that Paul felt himself
turning into the man whose organ he now contained.
But 21 Grams does not do anything like this. It does not follow through on
the ‘dead husband’s heart’ idea at all. Instead, after showing Chris returning to
drugs and Paul nagging her, it turns without warning into a revenge story. Chris
suddenly decides that she wants Paul to kill Jack. This is even more surprising
because Chris actually rejected revenge earlier in the story. If you did this in a
conventional linear chronological ⊚ your film would stop in its tracks.
arriaga often does this switch of story and genre midway through the
action. It also happens in Three Burials, where the action switches from a
murder-investigation film to a double journey film, and Amores Perros, when
he resolves the violent, non-linear dog-fighting story midway and swaps to
the quiet linear story about the dog trapped under the floor.
386
388 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Structural breakdown of 21 grams
as I mentioned earlier, my structural analysis of 21 Grams is based on a chart
that I created by viewing the film many times and breaking down its action
into what I saw as its three separate stories (that become two stories, then one
story), ⊕ by ⊕, ⊜ by ⊜. having constructed my chart (unfortu-
nately, too big to reproduce in full here) I then reassembled each of the film’s
three stories into its chronological ⊚ structure using the approach
that I’ve taken throughout this book; that is, using my own tools and models
and drawing on Christopher vogler’s model, on the basic smiley/Thompson
nine-point structure model and on the traditional mountain model.
I went right back to basics and asked: ‘What are the plots of 21 Grams
about?’ To answer this, I followed my rule of thumb; namely, that the first-act
turning point is always what a story is ‘about’ ⊗-wise. I then double-
checked that I had the first-act turning point by asking whether what I had
pinpointed was a surprise that turns into the obstacle that drives the rest of
the story. By this method, I broke down 21 Grams into its three stories, thus
providing the following descriptions of what the ⊗ of each story is ‘about’:
1 Story one: Jack’s story Jack, a Christian convert, is not charged for
the hit-and-run killing of a man and his two young daughters, a
crime for which he is desperate to be punished (the first-act turning
point is Jack discovering that the law won’t punish him)
2 Story two: Chris’s story Chris, the widow and mother of the accident
victims, unknowingly falls in love with the man who received her
dead husband’s heart (the first-act turning point is her discovery that
she’s in love with the man who has her husband’s heart)
3 Story three: Paul’s story Paul, the recipient of a donor heart, falls
in love with the donor’s widow (so the first-act turning point of
Paul’s story is the same ⊕ as the first-act turning point in Chris’s
story; namely, Paul telling Chris that he is the recipient of her dead
husband’s heart)
Working back from the first-act turning point of each story, we can see that
the disturbance in all three is the same: it is the accident. The normality of
each ⊛ (Chris, Paul and Jack) is their family life prior to the acci-
dent. The plan of each is their response to how they will carry on after the
accident. Chris’s plan is to obliterate her memories by using cocaine and
alcohol. Paul’s plan is to find, then help the wife of his heart donor. Jack’s plan
is to conceal his crime, but he can’t live with this, and turns himself in to the
police.
Fractured tandem: The structure of 21 grams 389
Interestingly, there’s a striking resemblance here to The Sweet Hereafter,
where most of the parents in the film had one-act stories, with the bus acci-
dent as disturbance and the response to the accident as first-act turning point.
so far so good. But if we look at what happens next in each story, we
find, as I’ve said, that none has a ⊪—a proper ⊦—where the
story develops out of a first-act question. now there is only one question, a
completely new one, and it has turned the film into a revenge movie. The
new question is: ‘Will the couple kill the guilt-ridden hit-and-run driver?’
Certainly, the revenge movie is infused with poignancy because of what hap-
pened earlier in the film, ⊮ feels as if we are in a different film, a different
genre altogether.
so we are back to where we were earlier, with the amazing (but very dan-
gerous) mid-film story and genre switch. What is happening here? how is 21
Grams getting away with this? Why doesn’t it fall apart?
a new film or three truncated three-act stories?
structurally, we could describe the revenge story in two different ways. First,
we could see it as a new film (almost). This new film is very short and is actu-
ally two one-act stories, one about Jack and one about Paul, merging at the
end with Chris ceasing to have her own story just after her first-act turning
point and becoming instead the relationship line ⊣ to Paul. In this
new film, Jack’s disturbance is when Paul takes him into the desert to shoot
him and Paul’s disturbance is when he is told that his new heart is dying
(there is probably just enough backstory revealed in the revenge story for
those two disturbances to do their job). The thought-provoking surprise for
both is where Paul shoots himself in the tussle with Jack.
however, if we regard the three stories in 21 Grams as running from start
to finish of the film, we have to say that none has a proper ⊪. Chris’s
story ends at its first-act turning point. after that, she is Paul’s relationship-
line ⊣. In the stories of Paul and Jack, after each man’s first-act
turning point (for Paul, falling in love with Chris; for Jack, being released by
the police for lack of evidence), we jump almost immediately to their second-
act turning point, their closest moment to death before the ⊝. For Jack,
this is when Paul is about to shoot him in the desert. For Paul, it is when he
is told that his new heart is dying.
The ⊝ of both stories is Paul being shot (but not in the way it earlier
seemed) with the ⊡ being Chris’s discovery that she is pregnant, so
a new life begins, returning the film to the ⊙ of the mysterious nature,
location and meaning of life.
390 The 21st-Century Screenplay
exposition-heavy stories in 21 grams
This is all so weird that we need to check it. Is the film as exposition-heavy as
we think? The only way is to dismantle 21 Grams’ basic mechanics and count
its story beats in relation to a normal film. This is tedious work, but a film as
brilliant yet as structurally mystifying as 21 Grams can teach us a very great
deal.
normally, conventional linear films use screen time in the following
proportions:
•
⊫ about 15–25 per cent (these days often less)
•
⊪ about 50–60 per cent
•
third act to end of film about 15–25 per cent
In other words, a conventional linear film has a short set-up and a big mid-
dle. however, in 21 Grams, I count 109 story beats, of which 67 beats, quite
a lot more than 50 per cent, are given to the first acts of the three stories
alone. Chris’s ⊫ has 22 beats, Paul’s ⊫ has 28 and Jack’s ⊫
has 17.
even if you analyse the film differently (as writer–director roger Tucker
does, feeling it fits a conventional film structure, albeit awkwardly) the film
still ends up so seriously exposition-heavy that, told in a linear way, the audi-
ence would surely tune out (roger Tucker’s views are contained in an essay at
<www.rogertucker.co.uk>, under ‘articles’).
⊪ until the end
Things get odder. From the start of the ⊪ in each story to the end
of the film there are only 42 beats in all. Chris has 8 beats when she is on her
own, plus 1 ⊜ shared with Jack, 6 shared with Paul, and 6 shared with both
men. Paul has 7 beats on his own, 6 with Chris, 2 with Jack plus 6 shared with
both Chris and Jack. Jack has 13 beats alone, plus 1 with Paul, 1 with Chris
and 6 with Chris and Paul.
Below, in Figure 50.1 I break down of all of the storylines by beats. start-
ing from the left, columns two, three and four show the beats in which Chris,
Paul and Jack are either alone or are interacting with their families (but are
not with each other). The next three columns show scenes that they share.
wHaT THiS CHarT TellS US
very lOng nOrmaliTy
While films usually get their normality over and done with as quickly as
possible (sometimes in the first ⊕) so as to move on to the disturbance,
Fractured
tandem:
The
structure
of
21
grams
391
Smiley/Thompson CHRIS PAUL JACK CHRIS/ PAUL/ CHRIS/ Story beats
basic nine-point Story 1 Story 2 Story 3 PAUL JACK JACK per section
structure Story Story Story
Normality 4 beats 5 beats 4 beats 13
(that appear (that appear (before normality
before third- before third-act beats in all
act ⊝) third-act ⊝) before third-
⊝) act ⊝
2 beats 1 ⊜ 1 ⊜ 4 normality
(returning (returning (returning scenes after
again after again after again after third-act
third-act third-act third-act ⊝
⊝) ⊝) ⊝)
Disturbance 11 beats 5 beats 7 beats 23
Plan section 4 beats 16 beats 4 beats 24
First-act turning point 1 ⊜ 1 ⊜ 1 ⊜ 3
Number of story beats from start until end of ⊬ Total story beats = 67
⊪ 2 beats 4 beats 9 beats 2 beats 1 ⊜ 18
Second-act turning point 1 ⊜ 1 ⊜ 1 ⊜ 3
Third-act turning point 3 beats 2 beats 2 beats 4 beats 1 ⊜ 12
⊝ 6 beats shared by all three protagonists, plus 1 ⊕ repeated once 1 ⊜ 7
⊡ 2 beats 1 ⊜ 3
Number of story beats from start of act two to the end of film. Total story beats = 43
Figure
50.1
The
beats
in
21
grams
392 The 21st-Century Screenplay
21 Grams spends a total of 13 beats setting up the normality of each of its
three main characters in their separate lives. This number of normality scenes
in a chronologically told story would be the kiss of death.
very lOng diSTUrbanCe
The disturbance in all three stories is the accident. It takes up a total across
all three stories of 23 beats—a huge amount compared to a normal film but
utterly reasonable given the film’s subject material. again, in a normal film
this would cause disaster.
very lOng Plan
The plan takes up 24 beats across all of the stories, again far too many for a
linear chronological film.
FirST-aCT TUrning POinT
each story’s first-act turning point is one ⊜. For Paul and Chris, it is the
same ⊜. It is the ⊕ where, after they have tenderly made love, establish-
ing a commitment, Paul tells Chris that he has her husband’s heart, and they
quarrel.
For Jack, the hit-and-run driver, it is the moment where he is freed from
jail, despite his admission of guilt and desperate need to be punished.
TwO STOrieS blending inTO One
after Chris and Paul make love (that is, at the first-act turning point of each
of their stories), their stories blend and Chris ceases to be a ⊛ in her
own right. In the revenge story, Paul becomes the ⊛, with Chris an
⊣, forcing him to take revenge for her.
is it really a new structure?
are we sure that 21 Grams is not just an oddly shaped conventional film? If
it is, we should be able to depict it by the normal mountain diagrams, but we
can’t. For a start, in the first section there are three stories with three protago-
nists who don’t even know each other, so we would need three mountains.
and of course, if we start to look at the three stories, Chris’s story ends at its
first-act turning point after a very long normality, and the two other stories
have no ⊦.
If you drew Chris’s mountain, it would stop at its first peak, as in Figure
50.2.
Fractured tandem: The structure of 21 grams 393
Act 1 turning point
Plan: to obliterate memories
with drugs
Hiatus: living with Paul,
reverting to drugs
Disturbance: the accident—
many beats, extremely long
Normality: pre-accident
(notice how long it is)
Figure 50.2 21 grams: Chris’s story stops at its first peak
If you drew either Paul or Jack’s mountain, you would get something like this.
Act 2 turning point
Suspenseful act 2 ⊡
Missing act 2 material that ⊝
should be building suspense
Act 1 turning point Act 2 start (loss of
pace)
Plan, very long,
several beats
Disturbance—very
long, several beats
Normality, very
long, several beats
Figure 50.3 21 grams: Paul and jack’s stories are not mountain structures
How 21 grams achieves pace, connection and
unity
CHaraCTerS and STOrylineS SeT UP early
From the start we move methodically and consecutively between sequences
from each of the four stories. The film opens at a moment late in the revenge
394 The 21st-Century Screenplay
story, jumps to Chris in her normality before the accident (at a recovering drug
addicts’ group therapy meeting), jumps to Jack in his normality as an aggres-
sively evangelistic born-again Christian and finally jumps to Paul’s normality
in intensive care, talking in ⊞-over about being ‘in god’s waiting room’. We
now have our main players in their normalities and the film can start.
inTereSTing CHaraCTerS and new wOrldS
all of the characters are unusual and unpredictable, each with a problem
hanging over their personal life and each with the potential to act errati-
cally which instantly inserts suspense. notice the three unusual ‘new worlds’:
inner-city Christian revivalist mission, drug rehabilitation for housewives
and heart transplant surgery.
inTereSTing FraCTUring/deTeCTive STOry
21 Grams needs to show a lot of the characters’ domestic normality because
a great deal of the film’s poignancy is located in hindsight, in the contrast
between their worlds pre- and post-accident. To avoid boredom, the film
needs to transmit the pre-accident normalities via intriguing (but not confus-
ing) non-linearity. Consequently, from the start the film is not only showing
that we have three characters and three stories, it’s forcing us to play detective
as the action jumps about in ways that intrigue and involve us. First of all,
Paul is healthy and in bed with a blonde woman. Then he is dying of heart
disease and so deeply involved with a brunette that they are trying to con-
ceive a child. Then he is healthy and has a gun. Then he has been shot, and
the blonde woman, clearly now his lover, is shrieking for an ambulance—and
so on.
keePing STOrieS and Time FrameS diSTinCT
avoiding confusion in non-linear films is hard. notice the vital visual story
clues here—very necessary when a film jumps between stories and time-
frames. The two women in Paul’s life are easily told apart by their hair colour
and looks. We can tell Paul is at different times of his life because his ill-
health is highly visible. This basic identification matter is crucial.
dread and deaTH
The mention or threat of death every third ⊕, as described above, means
there is no opportunity for the film to slow down (if you were constructing
a film like this you would need to make sure you had enough high jeopardy
death scenes to keep shoving the story forward like this).
Fractured tandem: The structure of 21 grams 395
Interestingly, while the accident is not actually mentioned for some time,
we quickly infer that Paul, Chris and Jack are the main players, and while we
don’t at first realise that a shocking accident and a donor heart are what bring
Paul and Chris together, we feel dread and anxiety. Thus, the missing pieces
of the story are intriguing, not irritating. The fractured storytelling creates
not exasperation but dread, foreboding, and a strong desire to find out what
happens. It cleverly pulls us in rather than alienates us.
nOn-lineariTy Only aT THe STarT
surprisingly, after its strikingly non-linear ⊨, the film actually tells the
three stories (then two, then one) of Paul, Chris and Jack more or less simul-
taneously and chronologically, just as if we were in tandem ⊚, with
only the occasional out-of-⊟ ⊕.
If we were to take my extended chart of the film that shows the scenes in
the order in which they appear on screen and colour in each ⊕ according
to where it fits in the basic smiley/Thompson nine-point model, with nor-
mality as pale blue and each step a slightly darker blue, making the ⊝
the darkest, there would be a general gradation from pale to dark blue, with
only spots of a different shade.
What this tells us is that non-linearity at the start of the film, particularly
when it involves death or the threat of death, can have enormous impact.
after that, you don’t need to be too worried about non-linearity and can tell
your stories mostly simultaneously and in the same time frame, as in tandem.
FlaSHFOrwardS
Probably the most important means that arriaga uses in 21 Grams to create
pace, rising momentum, connection and unity is the flashforward, or more
precisely, persistent and regular flashforwards in the earlier parts of the film.
Flashforwards are an arriaga hallmark and they transmit his abiding
interest in consequences. however, their technical side effect is that they tie
together films that have a genre/story split in the ⊦. This provides a very
practical application for flashforward: using it to tie together uneven films,
particularly films that switch genres and/or involve big jumps midway.
The extraordinary impetus of 21 Grams is achieved by a pattern of flash-
forwards that continually pull the film ahead of itself. The action keeps
jumping ahead to fragments of the high-action revenge bloodbath, then
returning to fill in events from before and immediately after the accident,
events which, if shown chronologically, would often be bits of boring ‘nor-
mality’ or inherently slow because they are sad (like the funeral) but which
396 The 21st-Century Screenplay
with hindsight come imbued with deep poignancy, hence energy. roger
Tucker cleverly compares this flashforward construction of 21 Grams to a
breaking wave ‘wherein fragments of future events wash up in the present
before the crash of the wave’. It’s a good, useful analogy—the film riding the
wave, being carried along by the emotion of the future.
on the practical side, flashforwards, properly handled, permit you to
leave out details and include only the crucial events from a long period,
doing it, moreover, in a very unobtrusive way, with zero disjunction. This is
very handy when you are running three stories.
Interestingly, as roger Tucker points out, material in flashbacks/forwards
in 21 Grams does not depict an individual’s subjective memory. The material
is ‘what happened’ rather than events shown through an individual con-
sciousness, a point of view. This is radically different from most flashback/
forward usage, where the point is that the view is subjective.
To construct a film like 21 grams
Your best bet would be first to create three one-act stories about people con-
nected by one catastrophe (each ⊥ in a thought-provoking surprise).
Then create a short section that brings all three together at the second-act
turning point. Finally, create an equally brief third act and ⊝ with a
twist. open with material from around the high-jeopardy second-act turn-
ing point area, then jump back to the three stories before the catastrophe.
Jump between the three stories, progressing mostly chronologically in each,
but flashing forward to create dread and add pace. suggest death frequently.
Beware of the split.
397
Chapter 51
Four fractured tandem films
ThIs ChaPTer looks aT Three Burials of melchiades Estrada, The Hours,
Babel and Rendition.
The Three burials of melchiades estrada:
Changing genre midway
The Three Burials of melchiades Estrada is a poignant and deeply disturbing
film about friendship, loss and the impact of the dead on the living.
Three Burials starts out as a murder mystery, ⊨ with the discovery of
a corpse, melchiades, an illegal mexican immigrant, who we later discover was
accidentally shot by mike, a border guard. as the dead man’s friend, Pete, tries
to discover who killed melchiades, the film flashes back to the lives of Pete,
melchiades and mike in the period leading up to the shooting. once everything
that happened up to and including the killing is fully explained through flash-
backs, the film, in the present, has reached the ⊢, and switches genre. It
turns from a fast-paced, flashback detective story into a linear double journey
movie, a thoughtful but very different film, a journey of the soul as Pete forces
mike to accompany him across the desert to bury the decomposing corpse of
melchiades in mexico. In the journey section there is just one brief flashback.
For some audiences there was too much of a jolt when the film switched
to a different genre. The jolt in Three Burials is deliberate, probably in order
to be confronting (the film was meant to be confronting in many ways).
Whether you want jolts or hate them, it’s important to know why they hap-
pen and how to create or remove them.
wHy iS THe SwiTCH nOTiCeable?
1. TwO STOrieS beCOming One
as well as involving a switch of genre, two stories merge into one. We start
with the two separate stories before the shooting (Pete and melchiades, mike
and his wife), then switch to one, the journey across the desert. notice that
both stories share the same first-act turning point (melchiades’ death), the
397
398 The 21st-Century Screenplay
same ⊢ (Pete captures mike) and same ⊝ (from slightly different
angles) when melchiades is finally buried. Before melchiades’ death, mike
and Pete inhabit different worlds.
2. nO FlaSHFOrwardS
21 Grams also involves separate stories merging into one, ⊮ uses flash-
forwards to conceal the changeover; that is, we see bits from the end of the
story very early on, which prepare us for the change—in fact, we’re inter-
ested to see it. Three Burials has no flashforwards, therefore the central split
is much clearer, thus much more confronting to the audience. Journey stories
always have a tendency to be slow and episodic. The Odyssey, as we’ve seen,
makes liberal use of the flashbacks and jumps between storylines, both to
cover gaps and to increase jeopardy.
3. FaST TO SlOw
Three Burials goes from an action story to thoughtful, lyrical story, whereas
21 Grams does the reverse. Fast to slow is probably always going to be hard.
4. FlaSHbaCkS STarT aT THe FirST-aCT TUrning POinT
The film does not open on its second-act turning point or ⊝ and then
go into flashbacks. Instead, it opens on its first-act turning point (the death
of melchiades) and its flashbacks depict the ⊫ of the story. as we know,
the first-act turning point is a natural hiatus point because it is where the film
changes direction, so starting flashbacks on it is always dangerous. The genre
switch actually happens at ⊢, when Pete is told that mike is the murderer.
Planning a Film like THree bUrialS
at present, audiences resist gaps and loose connections and are uncomfortable
with changes of ⊚ style and mood. This might change, but be aware that
at the moment, if you don’t use flashforwards to cover the gap (that is, if you
don’t insert tantalising material from later stories into the earlier ones), there
will be a jolt in the ⊚. If that’s the effect you want, fine. however, if you
don’t, the flashforward and the ‘breaking wave’ structure of 21 Grams (which
we’ll also see later in Babel) is probably the safest way to close a gap. a flash-
forward gives the audience a bridge to the final meaning and point of the film.
TO STrUCTUre a Film like THree bUrialS
Your best bet would be to imagine the film as two films, split in the ⊦,
the first film involving two stories that merge in the second. If you wanted a
Four fractured tandem films 399
direct replica of the pattern, your film would need to include an investiga-
tion of a murder crime, but the pattern doesn’t have to involve a crime and
doesn’t need to involve a murder. It could be the discovery of a terrible lie, for
example. Death, of course, provides the highest jeopardy.
start by plotting your equivalents to Pete and mike’s stories separately, in
a linear way. one will be the investigator, one the perpetrator of the crime
or misdeed. make sure that each of your two stories has the same first-act
turning point (discovery of the crime), ⊢ (investigator confronts
criminal) and ⊝. make your film open on the discovery of the crime.
Use your investigation story in the present as the spine of the film, attach-
ing to it firstly scenes from the present depicting the perpetrator’s guilt and
remorse and secondly, flashbacks to the lives of all the main players before
the crime or misdeed, explaining how the crime or misdeed happened. These
flashbacks will be told in chronological order. There are no more flashbacks
once the crime is fully explained. now the revenge/journey begins. hence-
forth tell the story in a linear way.
If you want to conceal the split, insert flashforwards to the journey dur-
ing the first part of the film, before your Pete character captures your mike
character. remember to insert a final twist, in fact, a couple.
The Hours: manipulating the audience’s
expectations
In my view, The Hours, written by David hare based on ⊯ Cunning-
ham’s novel, consists of three intercut one-act films, each about a different
woman, and a coda, all bookended by a prologue and epilogue showing vir-
ginia Woolf’s suicide by drowning (a real event) with her suicide note in
⊞-over. each of the stories ends at its first-act turning point in a thought-
provoking surprise, and each provides a variation on themes in virginia
Woolf’s novel mrs Dalloway.
HOw THe PrOlOgUe maniPUlaTeS THe aUdienCe
remarkably, the film gets its suspense and momentum by a prologue that
sets up dread by making us expect that all of the stories will feature suicide.
It exploits our sense of pattern, our search for a uniting ⊙, to send us in
the wrong direction. seeing the film open with Woolf’s suicide, then cutting
between the desperation of each of the three women, we naturally assume
that one or more are going to suicide. The stories play on that misapprehen-
sion, creating misplaced dread for the whole film. only right at the end of
each do we discover that virginia does not suicide on the day in question, and
400 The 21st-Century Screenplay
neither do either of the other two women. The suicide that does happen is all
the more of a shock precisely because we are not expecting it. The film is most
certainly a detective story playing with dread; remarkably, dread created in
a few moments at the start of the film and maintained by holding back the
three first-act turning point surprises until the very last moment.
THe THree STOrieS
The Hours jumps about within three different time frames and uses a fourth
for Woolf’s drowning. like 21 Grams it uses three protagonists. extraor-
dinarily, while all three stories end in an anticlimax, with the women not
suiciding, this is not a let-down; in fact the endings are energised and posi-
tive because our fears are not realised.
In 1951 in los angeles, laura is desperately trying to be a perfect wife
for her husband, son and unborn daughter, but cannot. she goes to a hotel
to commit suicide but (and this is the anticlimactic first-act turning point
surprise) she cannot. In richmond, United kingdom, in the 1920s, virginia,
who we think will kill herself, has just decided to write a novel, with a hero-
ine, mrs Dalloway, who suicides. The first-act turning point surprise (again
anticlimactic) is that virginia herself does not suicide on the day in question,
but instead decides to make the poet in her novel die, not mrs Dalloway. In
Clarissa’s story, set in present-day new York, Clarissa, a modern version of
Clarissa Dalloway in Woolf’s novel, struggles with thoughts about the inad-
equacy of her life as she arranges a party for her one-time lover richard, now
dying of aIDs. The first-act turning point surprise here is that the person we
least expect suicides.
as in 21 Grams, there is no proper second-act ⊧ of these three
surprise/obstacles. The stories simply jump to the end, after each unexpected
suicide. The final coda section involves two of the three stories coming
together, physically and thematically, through an unexpected connection
between laura and Clarissa.
THemeS and OTHer COnneCTiOnS
Connections between the stories are legion, and keep referencing mrs Dal-
loway. The three women are all living out a day in their suffocating lives. all
are preparing for a party or to entertain guests, all the stories involve suicide
and woman–child relationships. as it is often pointed out, virginia is writing
the novel, laura is reading it and Clarissa is living it. The film cuts repeatedly
between stories—from an image, line of ⊘ or action in one story to the
same or a very similar image, comment or action in another.
Four fractured tandem films 401
STrUCTUre
David hare calls the structure ‘triangular’ and comments in an interview with
sheila Johnston: ‘What’s wonderful about a triangular structure is that you
never know where you’re going next’; that is, it’s a detective story. The three
stories do all come together to one point, in the coda which, with its remark-
able coincidence, sounds, out of context, like soap opera, but in context works
excellently. Partly this is because of the sheer quality of the writing and the
clever intercutting, but I’d suggest that it’s also probably because of the effect of
the bookend, the prologue/epilogue of Woolf’s suicide and the detective story
based on dread. remarkably, this dread increases the suspense so much that
we don’t seem to notice ⊗ implausibility and anticlimax; in fact, we experi-
ence the anticlimax as relief. This trick of deliberately sending the audience
in the wrong direction, making them expect the worst, also appears in Babel.
‘THiS waS nOT a Film THaT waS CreaTed in THe ediT
rOOm’
Thus said stephen Daldry, the director of The Hours, adding, ‘We knew how
the stories were going to connect thematically, intellectually and emotionally
before we shot them. sometimes we’d even know how we’d cut from one story
to another.’
There could not be a better way to create a fractured tandem film because
the order of scenes and the way one ⊕ cuts to the next is not only vital
but is in delicate balance.
TO CreaTe a STrUCTUre like THe HOUrS
Your best bet would probably be to create three one-act stories (each ⊥
in a thought-provoking surprise); next, a brief section that blends them in an
unexpected way. Finish the three one-act stories as late as possible, to main-
tain suspense. Bookend all of this with a prologue that sets up intense dread
and an expectation of disaster and an epilogue with a final, powerful twist.
Predictability as you move between stories may be a problem, hence flag this,
and avoid exact repetitions.
babel: dread, the ripple effect and our
expectation of pattern
Babel plays the same trick with our expectations as The Hours, creating a
lasting and extraordinarily high level of dread about what will happen, then,
right at the end, providing a twist. Because we see from very early on that the
film is about the ripple effect of one specific event, we automatically presume
402 The 21st-Century Screenplay
that the death of one of the boys in the first story will be mirrored by deaths
in all the others, particularly deaths of children. But this does not happen. We
think the injured tourist will die or at least have her arm amputated, but she
doesn’t. We think the two little children will die in the desert, but they don’t.
We think the Japanese girl will suicide or be raped or murdered, but none
of these things happen. Fascinatingly, as in The Hours, none of these incom-
plete, anticlimactic endings plays as anticlimaxes. To the contrary, they fill
us with relief because the dread and sense of foreboding has been so intense.
This is done through the techniques we’ve already seen in The Hours. The
film creates and maintains dread via misleading ⊨ scenes and by hold-
ing back the stories’ denouements until the last moment. only in the last
moments of the nanny’s story do we know that the children were rescued
unharmed. Before that, we are convinced they will die. only in the clos-
ing moments of the Japanese girl’s story do we learn the tourist survived
unscathed (as an aside, really—we see it on a Tv monitor in a café where the
detective reads the girl’s note), and only in the final moments of the film are
we sure the Japanese girl survives.
note that in neither the shot tourist story nor the nanny story do we see a
third-act battle to win. We don’t see the tourist in hospital recovering or being
told she will survive, and we don’t see the discovery and rescue of the children.
HOw THe dread iS SeT UP
as in The Hours, the ⊨ ⊟ is crucial. The first four sequences are
as follows:
1 The boys’ story, running uninterrupted until its first-act turning
point; that is, when they see the bus draw to a halt, hit by the bullet,
CUT To
2 The nanny receiving the call from the distraught husband at the
hospital many hours after the shooting (which is the normality +
disturbance of the nanny’s story and simultaneously the second-act
turning point of the tourists’ story), CUT To
3 The tourists in morocco first discussing marital problems; next, on
the bus when the bullet comes through the window and hits the wife
(this is the normality + disturbance of the tourists’ story), CUT To
4 The Japanese girl at basketball, then angry with the boys at the café
(this is the normality + disturbance of the Japanese girl’s story).
notice that the film stays with the moroccan boys until the shooting and
only then jumps to other stories. so the film’s triggering event is established
Four fractured tandem films 403
immediately. The ⊟ that follows is not, as we might expect, the tourist
getting shot, but a ⊕ from much later in the action, the mexican nanny’s
story’s first ⊕; namely, the nanny, in her normality, receiving a phone call
from the distraught tourist husband, telling her to change her plans. This cre-
ates the nanny’s disturbance and tells us that the shooting prank in morocco
has had effects on the ground there but will also impact on the nanny. The
next ⊟ shows the tourist actually receiving the bullet (disturbance).
next, in striking contrast to the blood and panic on the bus, the ⊟
that follows is the Japanese girl’s normality, in which she interacts with her
father and friends, then (disturbance) gets angry with the boys in the café.
The Japanese girl’s ⊟ is sensibly placed after the bullet coming through
the window because, put earlier, it would undermine the horror. It’s also too
long to be put earlier. The film would take too long to show the shooting and
there would a loss of energy.
This set-up has a number of effects:
•
It establishes all stories and significant characters.
•
It tells us that the film is non-linear and sets up the ⊙ (the
consequences of one act on specific individuals around the world).
•
via its non-linearity it creates a detective story.
•
Playing on our logic and experience of films, it sets up an expectation
that, as one story shows a catastrophic accident, so will the rest.
THe breaking wave
note the shared turning points, reminiscent of Three Burials, making the
film jump at moments of very high emotion in each story (this is also robin
swicord’s technique, see p. 234). hence, the shooting is the first-act turn-
ing point of the boys’ story but also the disturbance of the tourists’ story.
similarly, the disturbance of the mexican nanny’s story (getting the phone
call telling her to stay with the children on her son’s wedding day) is also the
second-act turning point of the tourists’ story (just after the husband has
been told his wife might not survive). The Japanese girl’s story disturbance is
not related to the other stories.
STOrieS FrOm diFFerenT Time FrameS jUxTaPOSed
apart from the husband’s phone call, there are no repeated scenes, and each
story is told in a linear way, chronologically. however, stories in different
time frames appear next to each other. hence, scenes from the mexican
nanny’s story and the Japanese girl’s story appear alongside scenes from the
other stories, although chronologically they happened later. This is another
404 The 21st-Century Screenplay
example of arriaga’s flashforward technique with its breaking wave effect,
whereby the film is drawn forward by bits from later in the action being
inserted earlier on.
PrOgreSSiOn
adding to the breaking wave caused by the positioning of the stories is the
forward progression of the action in all the stories: the domino or ripple
effect. Just as the three stories in Amores Perros are a progression, with one
happening mostly before the accident, one happening immediately after, and
the third mostly some time afterwards, so in Babel the triggering story, the
shooting, sets off one story, which sets off another, and so on.
Can wriTerS be invOlved in THiS deTail OF ediTing?
Isn’t this cutting something that happens in the editing room in the absence
of the writer? Perhaps, as in the creation of The Hours, the writer can and
should be involved in such detailed work. The story jumps in fractured tan-
dem are so crucial that in my view writers should seek discussions with the
director. at the very least, writers should briefly and unobtrusively indicate
in the script the reason behind the existing order of scenes, so that the break-
ing wave effect is known about, and can be included, even with a different
⊕ selection. Creating a fractured tandem film in the editing room would
be very risky indeed.
THree-aCT STrUCTUre
21 Grams and The Hours use one-act structures with truncated second acts.
Babel uses three three-act structures. The boys’ story has a strong three-act
structure (disturbance: purchase of rifle; first-act turning point: shot tourist;
second-act turning point: police shoot-out; ⊝: boy shot dead). The shot
tourist story has a three-act structure, but slows after the first-act turning
point (getting stranded at the village) and ends in what in a linear presenta-
tion would be anticlimax. The nanny’s story is a three-act structure with a
powerful disturbance (she must stay with the children and miss her son’s
wedding), first-act turning point (her nephew drives through the border
checkpoint), second-act turning point (she and the children will die) and
anticlimax (all are rescued). The fourth story, belonging to the Japanese girl,
has only a disturbance (the girl angered by taunting boys). The story doesn’t
progress after that, although it keeps feeling as if violent turning points will
happen. It ends in anticlimax: the girl stays alive and unharmed.
Four fractured tandem films 405
POinTS TO nOTe abOUT babel
•
non-linearity and ⊙ are set up very early.
•
While the detective story element is so important in all fractured
tandem, it seems that knowing the precise time differences between
the stories or exactly what was happening when doesn’t really
interest or worry audiences. Where criticism was made of the film,
it was made about the Japanese girl’s story, which people felt was
insufficiently connected. It seems that major thematic connections
are more important to people than the fine details of chronology.
This might be very different in films like, say, murder thrillers where
chronological details such as who is where exactly when could be of
crucial interest.
•
There is a slowing in the shot-tourist story when the husband and
wife are in the village that worried some, but not all, audiences who
found it had a slowing effect.
•
There is no prologue and epilogue in Babel (hence no frame), yet
remarkably the film holds.
STrUCTUring a Film like babel
Plan a triggering story and three chain-reaction stories separately, as three-
act structures, but with a twist at the end. establish the film’s non-linearity
and ⊙ very early on. You will be achieving pace and suspense by the
high dread level, so set that up—that is, set up an expectation of a series of
disasters, and delay revealing the final twists in each story as long as possible.
Connect the different stories at turning points in each. make sure all the stor-
ies are consequences of the triggering story. You are after a breaking-wave
effect featuring rising emotion.
rendition (2007)
Rendition (not to be confused with Extraordinary Rendition) is a political
thriller that uses fractured tandem to create a surprise twist ⊥, which
is that while we assume all three stories (note: again three) are happening at
the same time, in fact one story happens about a week before the other two.
so all three stories are running simultaneously, but one is happening six days
or so before the other two. at the last moment we discover that the ⊝
of one—a love story where the young man turns out to be a suicide bomber
who blows himself and his girlfriend up in a busy market square—is the dis-
turbance of the other two stories; it is what triggers them. The first story deals
with a man who is mistakenly picked up as a terrorist connected with the
406 The 21st-Century Screenplay
suicide bombing, and his wife’s attempts to get him freed. The second story is
about a CIa man who, as a result of the suicide bombing, is forced from his
desk job out into the field to interrogate the mistakenly arrested man as he is
tortured. The film spans about a week.
The two time frames are linked, very much like Babel. The ⊨ ⊕
is repeated, as in Crash, the second time revealing its true position in the
action.
Interestingly, while the film certainly makes a strong comment on the
inhumanity of the CIa and the horrors of rendition, the film is not using
fracturing and time jumps to provide any thought-provoking insights, but
simply to surprise us. It needs that element of surprise because, like many
didactic political films that set out to shock audiences by showing the inevita-
ble happening, if you untangle all of the stories in Rendition, they are actually
linear and predictable: the boy contemplating becoming a suicide bomber
does so, the CIa man is horrified by the CIa’s practices and throws away his
career by setting free the wrongly arrested man and the wrongly arrested
man is freed, and returns to his wife and child.
a way TO injeCT energy inTO PrediCTable FilmS
Rendition shows that what in chronological terms would be a predictable
tandem ⊚ film can be rendered exciting by clever fracturing. Whereas
audiences watching tandem ⊚ know that the worst will happen, audi-
ences watching fractured tandem fear the worst will happen. They are caught
up in the detective story based on dread, their interest held until the very last
moment, often boosted by a twist ⊥.
While the clearest application for fractured tandem is to add interest to
predictable tandem narratives, there is no reason why it should not be used
to add new life to all kinds of films, particularly films in well-worn genres,
such as the heist movie, gangster movie, war movie—even the love story.
STrUCTUring a Film like rendiTiOn
Your best bet would be to create each of the three stories in its linear form,
then interweave them. since the film is about events happening in split sec-
onds you would need to make sure your three stories interwove so they
suggested the split-second timing the film requires. Be sure the final twist
is worth the effort the audience has to put in to fractured tandem films to
follow them.
Four fractured tandem films 407
guidelines for writing a fractured tandem
⊚
general
1 Your mottos are: ‘a detective story that plays on dread of death’,
‘wrong place, wrong time’ and ‘in fractured tandem, we fear the
worst will happen but in tandem we know it will’. The energy of this
form is in dread and suspense.
2 These films need careful planning. Be certain of the ⊙
(‘consequences’ and ‘unexpected accidents’ work well), create
vividly real but unusual stories in ‘new worlds’ on the ⊙ and
make sure that you have a macro that links all the stories together.
3 ⊗ out each story separately and plan how they interweave before you
start. Your stories may be exposition-heavy, and have a very truncated
⊦. They may end at a first-act turning point. make sure your first-
act turning point in each is a thought-provoking surprise.
4 set up the non-linearity and ⊙ very early.
5 You have limited screen time. even though your stories may need
a lot of exposition, use as little as you can; make sure all content is
telling. Fractured tandem films are about connections. audiences
can be alienated by stories they feel to be unconnected.
6 Using flashbacks/flashforwards always means that you can leave
out details and include only the crucial events from a long period—
very handy when you’re running three stories. Jump stories at
dramatic high points. Jumping from ⊝ or second-act turning
point to disturbance works well.
7 If you have a major hiatus anywhere in your film—a big time jump,
or a change of story and/or genre—consider a flashforward and/or
starting just after the hiatus, because these can help close the gap.
most audiences find a mid-film hiatus confronting (fine if that’s the
effect you want).
8 Think about the breaking wave, or domino, effect. get strong starts
to your stories by connecting the stories at their turning points as
in Babel.
9 In falling-domino stories, setting up the trigger incident first works
well.
408 The 21st-Century Screenplay
gOOd OPeningS and gOOd endingS
1 Fractured tandem films need a strong hook to keep the audience
interested despite all of the jumping and the puzzling they’ll do.
seriously consider introducing all of your stories in the set-up,
considering carefully what scenes you choose and how you arrange
them. Insert death or the threat of it and/or false expectation of
disaster early, and keep returning to it—keep maintaining the
dread. Construct the prologue in full knowledge of your twist
⊥, deliberately and cleverly directing the audience away from
the twist.
2 The jigsaw or ‘detective story’ is essential. set it up early. Don’t
make the story too hard or too easy to understand.
3 avoid confusion. Your audience may have only seconds to identify
characters before the action jumps between stories, particularly at
the start, so specify that characters look physically different (hair
colour, spectacles etc.) and make the backgrounds very different.
having one story in black and white not colour might help.
PrOvide a gOOd TwiST ⊥
1 good twist endings rely on clever set-ups that send the audience in
the opposite direction. having several twists is good. The audience
will assume the film’s message is in the twist. Check that yours is.
2 Conclude stories as late as possible (to maintain dread).
3 sad scenes and normality scenes are slow, so put them in after
you’ve flashed forward to more dramatic events. That way the slow
material is invested with hindsight, and is therefore poignant, not
boring.
4 If your message is particularly didactic and means that your
material is extremely predictable, don’t just rely on structure to fix
this. Consider introducing some unpredictable elements into the
mix, probably via events in the action line, the macro, since this is
where you will have flexibility.
5 successful fractured tandem films typically involve a close
collaboration between writer and director on the matter of how the
film is cut. Pursue this.
Part 5
lost in the
Telling:
Films with
Structural
Flaws
This page intentionally left blank
411
Chapter 52
Conventional ⊚ films with
structural flaws
lookIng aT FIlms WhICh in many ways are fine but have structural
weaknesses is a very helpful way to understand how structure works. readers
may of course disagree with my choice of films here. These things are always
subjective.
Falling in love
PrOblemS
•
no first-act turning point
•
weak antagonists
•
low jeopardy
Falling in Love is about two married people who meet on a commuter train,
fall in love, and eventually decide to leave their respective partners and stay
together. Both lead actors give fine performances, the direction is sensi-
tive, and the film is well shot. Unfortunately, for most audiences, it does not
engage.
generally, the problem presents as low jeopardy. It is hard to see why
the decision to leave their respective partners is so difficult. neither of these
partners is sympathetic and there is little left in either marriage (although
some time but little weight is given to the problem of robert de niro’s char-
acter leaving his two children). neither of the lovers has a moral or religious
problem with divorce. right at the end of the film there is an issue over
whether the de niro character will move away or not, ⊮ comes at the
point when the film has slowed too much for it to have a great deal of impact.
The response of audiences, justifiably, is: ‘What is their problem?’
This hits the nail on the head. There is no problem. specifically, there is
no first-act turning point—no surprise/obstacle which complicates the pro-
tagonists’ problem, turns the action in a new direction, and thereby lifts the
jeopardy. a good first-act turning point—like the piano getting bogged in
The Piano or, in The Player, the wrong person getting murdered—provides
411
412 The 21st-Century Screenplay
a whole range of complications that fuel the rest of the film. In fact, as we’ve
seen, the first-act turning point is what the film is ‘about’.
Falling in Love would have been greatly energised had it been about ‘two
people who fall in love and something major (moral or physical) comes in
their path, forcing them to battle and agonise over their love’, rather than
simply ‘two people who fall in love’. Without a proper first-act turning point
to put the lovers’ relationship under genuine strain, Falling in Love does not
have enough at stake to make an audience properly worry or empathise.
The film would also have been helped by stronger antagonists in the form of
the two jilted partners. had they been more engaging or in some way more
needy, the film would have had greater jeopardy.
The insider
PrOblemS
•
wrong ⊛?
•
mentor ⊣?
The Insider features excellent performances and production values but nev-
ertheless puzzled many audiences because they thought they had come to
see a film about a whistleblower, Jeffrey Wigand, who exposed the tobacco
industry. Instead, they found that the film was centered on the Tv journalist
to whom the whistleblower took his story, a man called lowell Bergman, and
Bergman was the ⊛. audiences felt left in mid air when the film’s
⊝ showed Bergman resigning (because the Tv network had compro-
mised his journalistic integrity), while Wigand’s much stronger story was left
at what feels like a second-act turning point, with Wigand betrayed, aban-
doned, bereft of wife and children and mortally endangered.
my feeling is that the film is structured around the wrong ⊛.
It has been turned into a film about a journalist resigning over a matter of
principle, when in fact the more natural ⊛, the more interesting
character, the heat of the film, is the whistleblower—because he is in the
greater danger and has everything, including his life, to lose. In any film the
character with the highest jeopardy will steal the limelight (unless special
devices are utilised to prevent it, as in City of God), quite simply because they
are more interesting.
Unless you are using a mentor ⊣ figure (which could have been
done in The Insider, but only by keeping the whistleblower and journal-
ist together on screen for the greater part of the film) the most interesting
character—the one in most danger, with the most to lose—has to be the
Conventional ⊚ films with structural flaws 413
⊛. even if you don’t make this character the ⊛, he or she
will steal the show by default.
The Insider was based on a true story, written up by a journalist. While
The Insider source material is clearly centred on Wigand—it is his story—
adaptations of both fiction and fact often have problems with protagonists
because the source mat erial is written from the point of view of the narrator,
so those adapting it often automatically make the narrator the ⊛,
even though frequently the most interesting person is the person the narra-
tor is writing about. In cases like these, the narrator, technically, is very much
like the passive ⊛ in a mentor ⊣ film. We the audience are
in their shoes, being shown their point of view of an enigmatic outsider.
When you adapt a narrator’s account of an interesting character for the
screen, consider whether you need the narrator at all. If you do, consider
whether your material would be best served by being created as a mentor
⊣ movie.
jaws 3
PrOblemS
•
not identifying the ⊛ early enough
•
not making the ⊛’s problem clear enough (unfocused
action line)
•
passive ⊛ who is not central to the action (unfocused action
line, poor understanding of genre)
•
weak hunt element (unfocused action line, poor understanding of
genre)
•
lack of strong antagonists
•
poor research
In Jaws 3, a mother shark goes on a death rampage after her baby has become
accidentally trapped in a lagoon that also accommodates a spectacular
underwater aquarium and dolphin pool. Because the owner of the resort
denies there is a problem, many people are killed, the shark threatens the
dolphins and, in a big ⊝, the underwater aquarium is smashed apart by
the giant shark which is eventually blown up by the ⊛.
Jaws 3 takes twelve minutes to properly identify its ⊛, mikey,
during which a large number of characters are given screen prominence of
a kind that suggests they might be the ⊛. It would have been quite
possible to cut the first twelve minutes and sneak exposition in later.
The problems Jaws 3 has in establishing its ⊛, and therefore in
414 The 21st-Century Screenplay
getting started, reflect an unfocused action line and a weak ⊛ gen-
erally. Far from driving the action, mikey has little to do until the ⊝,
when the shark is actually terrorising people in the aquarium. only here is
he at the centre of the action, being the hunter/defender ⊛ essential
to successful monster films.
While protagonists in monster films often follow the typical hero’s jour-
ney model—being initially reluctant to ‘play hero’—their reluctance is short
lived and normally they accept the quest very quickly. There is a good reason
for this. monster stories only really start when the hunt starts. The whole
point of monster movies is to create an exciting two-way hunt between the
⊛ and vicious monster (or monsters), each bent on destroying the
other. The hunt is the core of the monster movie, just as the core of a romance
movie is the meeting, problems and final partnering of the lovers. Unfortu-
nately, Jaws 3 does not contain a proper hunt at all, and the ⊛ is an
essentially passive onlooker. Instead of a hunt there are many shark attacks,
mostly on characters who have never appeared before and who therefore
have little emotional pull on the audience.
There are three lessons here. The first is that in any story, monster or
otherwise, the identity of the ⊛ must be established early, because
until it is, the story cannot start and the audience gets bored. The second is
that the ⊛ must be centrally involved in the action, otherwise the
story is unfocused and cannot properly build. The third is that monster stor-
ies need to get the hunt started at an early stage.
another weakness in Jaws 3 is the lack of a strong human ⊣
with powerful allies who load the dice against the ⊛. In all films,
monster or otherwise, the ⊛ and the jeopardy is only as strong as
the ⊣ and their allies. The original Jaws gained enormous suspense
from the fact that the mayor and business community of the town, acting as
the shark’s allies, would not listen to the ⊛ and stop the monster’s
killing spree. There is the basis for this in Jaws 3—the owners are foolishly
materialistic and will do anything to save the aquarium—but because the
⊛ in Jaws 3 is not a proper hunter engaged from the start with a
proper mission, the antagonists cannot properly do their job of putting bar-
riers in his way.
The problem of a weak action line with no proper role for the protag-
onist can be picked at an early stage by creating and applying a ⊚
sentence to describe the action of the story in terms of what the ⊛
is doing. ⊧ strategies on ⊛ and ⊣ (numbers
12 and 13, pp. 83 and 90) will help to establish a strong ⊣ and also
Conventional ⊚ films with structural flaws 415
the ⊣’s allies. The genre equation (⊧ strategy 3, p. 22),
which pinpoints the genre to check audience expectations, will help identify
the necessary ⊗ components.
another problem with the ⊗ of Jaws 3 is its inaccuracy. While the ⊗
is based on the idea of a mother shark protecting her offspring, great white
sharks do not mother their young. They desert them immediately after birth.
It is not worth losing audiences for the sake of an hour’s research. one chor-
tling member of the audience can wreck your film.
guarding Tess
PrOblemS
•
delayed first-act turning point
•
repeating the normality
•
inappropriate action line
•
unconvincing ⊝
•
better told with preview flashback?
Guarding Tess is about a Us government agent (nicolas Cage) who has to
guard Tess, a wilful but likeable ex-First lady (shirley maclaine). Ultimately,
Tess gets kidnapped and the agent has to find her. The agent is the protago-
nist, and Tess is the charismatic ⊣.
Guarding Tess has a very late first-act turning point (the kidnap). Prior to
that, the film simply displays a range of different examples of the same normal-
ity, which is: ‘Tess infuriates the agent by her wilfulness’. While each example of
this is interesting and humorous in itself, the repetition becomes boring.
The repeated normality problem in Guarding Tess is probably caused by
the poor choice of action line. The point of interest in Guarding Tess is a
mother–son relationship. Unfortunately, the chosen action line (the woman
kidnapped) is inappropriate. a relationship film requires the two main play-
ers to be kept together so they can interact. a ⊗ where one of them is
kidnapped necessarily separates them and so prevents this. In Guarding Tess,
the temptation is to spend as much time as possible on the normality because
once the ⊗ starts, the couple will be separated. This is exactly what happens.
The relationship line would have been much better served by the classic
action line of films that are primarily about relationships, which is that events
force the main players together in some joint enterprise, during which their
relationship develops, moving from distance—even hostility—to closeness,
often deep love. almost every ‘relationship film’, comic or serious, displays
this formula. Just a few examples are: Driving miss Daisy, Crocodile Dundee,
416 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Strictly Ballroom, The African Queen, Witness, Planes, Trains and Automobiles
and Romancing the Stone.
It is very easy in scripts that are primarily concerned with relationships
to forget the importance of the action line and the fact that a relationship
cannot change until events force it to change. Without an action line, the
relationship is jammed in one spot. structurally, the moments in a script that
force a relationship to move out of its normality are the turning points and
shifts in the action-line ⊗ (the disturbance, first-act turning point, second-
act complications, second-act turning point, and ⊝).
The kidnap movie can be a vehicle for a developing relationship, but the
relationship will be between kidnapper and victim (Ruthless People) or kid-
napper and ransom target (Ransom). It cannot be between the victim and the
person who is trying to find them.
a clear sign of this poor choice of action line is that the agent’s profound
emotion upon finally finding Tess is just not believable because it hasn’t been
set up. an intense response like this has to be earned over the course of the
film by a complex, developing relationship. This is what happens in Driving
miss Daisy, which ⊗-wise has almost the identical ingredients and inten-
tions as Guarding Tess. The difference between the two films is that the central
relationship in Guarding Tess is trapped at the normality stage. The inap-
propriate action line of the film has not permitted Tess to demonstrate any
likeable, admirable or lovable qualities that would justify the strong affection
her bodyguard ultimately displays.
Preview FlaSHbaCk Or FraCTUred Tandem?
Guarding Tess might possibly have been helped by the careful use of preview
flashback, with a high-jeopardy ⊕ from the end (cut in a way that did
not reveal the proper ⊥) placed at the start. It would, though, still be
seriously hampered by its inappropriate siege ⊗ and its overly long set-up.
Fractured tandem might be a better solution, but that would mean much
more time and story given to the Us government agent’s search, which would
turn the agent into the film’s central character.
Prelude to a kiss
PrOblemS
•
delayed first-act turning point
•
possibly better told through fractured tandem?
Prelude to a Kiss stars meg ryan and alec Baldwin in a love story about a
man (⊛) who falls in love with a beautiful and unconventional
Conventional ⊚ films with structural flaws 417
woman. They decide to get married. at the ceremony, a strange old man
appears. The bride gives him a good luck kiss—and faints (surprise/obstacle
or first-act turning point). after this, she starts behaving like a suburban
housewife. her husband is initially bewildered, becoming gradually hostile
as he grows convinced that an impostor is somehow located inside his wife’s
body. eventually, the old man turns up at the husband’s favourite bar. he
reveals that his body now contains the soul and personality of the wife, and
vice versa. The old man’s body is dying, and unless the body swap can be
reversed, the wife’s soul and personality will die with him. This seems inevi-
table (second-act turning point). Finally, the reversal is achieved (⊝).
The story of Prelude to a Kiss is a fascinating one and the film contains fine
performances. Unfortunately, it soon becomes boring because the first-act
turning point does not occur until a very long way into the film. Too much time
is spent after the initial meeting and falling in love (the disturbance) on show-
ing the lovers actually in love which, structurally, is really just a new ‘normality’.
There is a reason for this. The filmmakers have to set up details that will later
prove the woman to be an impostor. Unfortunately, the process takes much
too long. The effect is of the ⊗ ‘treading water’, and the audience response
is to ask, justifiably, ‘What is the point of all this?’ The film has lost so much
momentum by the time the first-act turning point does occur that the moment
does not have the impact it deserves. It is actually a good and striking first-act
turning point—one that lifts jeopardy and turns the film in an unexpected and
interesting new direction. The rest of the film is also interesting. Unfortunately,
many viewers simply do not persist long enough to see either.
PrelUde TO a kiSS aS Preview FlaSHbaCk Or
FraCTUred Tandem
Because its storyline demands that it is exposition-heavy (and also because
it involves dread of death) Prelude to a Kiss might have worked better in pre-
view flashback or fractured tandem form.
aS Preview FlaSHbaCk
If its current ⊫ were preceded with a powerful death-connected ⊕
from the end of the film (preview flashback style), dread and a detective story
would instantly be set up. Possibly that high-jeopardy hook alone would pro-
vide sufficient momentum for the film to proceed in its current linear way to
⊝, although it would need a rosebud twist at the end to insert surprise.
The twist could be set up by clever cutting of preview flashback ⊨
⊕, sending the audience in the wrong direction.
418 The 21st-Century Screenplay
aS FraCTUred Tandem
as fractured tandem, the film could open in the chronological ⊦ of
the story, at an exciting moment after the body swap has happened, utilising
flashbacks to show the woman as she really was. Flashforwards could add
cohesion and unity here. another option would be to fracture the story even
more, as in 21 Grams. The aim would be to find a way to energise the long,
slow section showing the woman’s off-⊜ personality.
419
Chapter 53
Parallel ⊚ films with
structural flaws
winged Creatures (aka Fragments): Tandem
⊚
PrOblemS
•
slowness in ⊪ caused by
•
insufficient story ⊧, characters stuck on same ⊜,
repeating different versions of the same ⊜
Winged Creatures is a tandem ⊚ utilising life-changing incident flash-
back to show the emotional after-effects of a mass-shooting on five survivors,
each survivor a ⊛ in their own story on the same ⊙, as all the
stories unfold simultaneously. It is very much a case of ‘same ⊙, different
adventures’.
The shooting is the film’s disturbance and also the life-changing incident
flashback. shown in part at the start of the film, it appears incrementally,
while we see the survivors engaging in a variety of abnormal and in some
cases highly dangerous behaviours. In the final moments of the film, the
shooting is seen in full, explaining the odd conduct of three of the survivors.
The film starts well and builds dread effectively until it slows down in the
⊦. Technically, the cause is that each survivor’s story is stuck on the
same ⊜: the odd behaviour they commenced after the shooting. hence,
the person who became a born-again Christian just keeps being a born-again
Christian, the man who turned to gambling just keeps gambling, and so on.
each finally moves on to the next ⊜, and the film speeds up at its ⊝
(although some questions about the gambler remain unanswered), but not
soon enough to stop the central slowness. This moral here is that the most
harrowing incremental flashback will not boost a story where, in the ongoing
story, a ⊛ is repeating different versions of the same action. Winged
Creatures doesn’t have enough story; more precisely, none of its stories have
enough complications—they don’t take the characters into sufficient build-
ing complications before coming to a close.
419
420 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless mind combines flashback (preview flash-
back) and tandem more successfully. For more information on handling
beats, see pp. 133–7.
Syriana (tandem ⊚)
PrOblemS
•
didacticism militating against suspense
•
redundant characters
•
⊗ information unreasonably concealed
•
better told as fractured tandem?
stephen gaghan, the writer/director of Syriana, set out to inform audiences
about the endemic corruption and unscrupulousness of Us oil companies and
their executives, basing his script on the autobiographical books of an ex-CIa
officer. The film certainly succeeds in transmitting its intended message. how-
ever, as a feature film, it divided audiences. many loved its complexity, but many
found it overly complicated and rejected it, which is unfortunate because the
film’s topic is of major importance and there is a great deal in the film that is fine.
given that discussion of the film always centres around its complexity, it’s
interesting that actually the plotlines are not complex at all. They are predict-
able—because of an over-zealous commitment to the film’s message that all
of the social-political catastrophes that happen were bound to happen. To
show this the film has no surprises and the characters, well drawn as they are,
are actually stereotypes (good prince/bad prince, disillusioned CIa opera-
tive, exploited young men becoming terrorists etc.). It is clear from the start
that the american oil executives are crooked. It is clear that the two exploited
young muslim oil workers will become terrorists; in fact, their story is so
linear it is like a documentary. It is predictable that the upright lawyer Ben-
nett holiday will become compromised and that the rumpled CIa man, Bob
(george Clooney) will have to act alone because his superiors are cynical and
manipulative liars. It is no surprise at the end when the CIa frames Bob and,
despite Bob’s frantic attempts to prevent it, assassinates the good prince, nasi,
leaving his vicious brother to rule.
lacking plots with surprises and twists, Syriana searches for suspense and
audience engagement by making it very hard to work out what is happening
and what is and isn’t important. For example, Danny Dalton, a key player,
introduces himself by name in a Tv news bulletin that is playing very much
in the background during a tense ⊕ between Bennett holiday, the lawyer,
and his alcoholic father. Dalton’s name will keep coming up, so we really need
Parallel ⊚ films with structural flaws 421
to know who he is. But there really is no way that a first-time audience can
tell from this ⊕ that Dalton is of any significance; in truth, we are liable
to have forgotten the Tv bulletin completely because we were so focused on
holiday and his father. The only way to pick up the crucial information about
Dalton is to re-watch the film. meanwhile, the film persistently spends a lot of
time on irrelevancies. For example, there is a ⊕ where the good prince is
seen talking to a man about getting the man’s son a house. man, son and house
turn out to be completely irrelevant, but the audience has naturally focused on
them, assuming their prominence means they must be important in the story.
The audience is persistently being led astray like this, but not in the normal
way of thrillers; that is, by a complex ⊗ that will unfold satisfactorily at the
end. Instead, we are taken into emotional blind alleys. The most striking of
these is at the start, with the harrowing death of a child. This is powerfully done,
⊮ takes up a lot of time and really has no bearing on the ⊗ proper, except
to explain why his bereaved father throws himself obsessively into work. again,
after Bob is horribly tortured, we cut to Bennett being called to a bar to pick up
a man slumped on a table. We naturally assume that this is Bob, and that Bob
and Bennett will form an alliance, ⊮ is not Bob at all. It is Bennett’s father.
Possibly, these frustrating ⊗ issues were created during editing, possi-
bly not. It doesn’t really matter. What matters is that many audiences simply
gave up, which is a great shame because the film has important things to say.
Syriana aS FraCTUred Tandem?
The ⊗ of the fractured tandem film Rendition bears marked similarities to
Syriana, in terms both of content and (because both films are didactic and
want to show the inevitable) of the predictability of its plotlines. Both have
a nice young man becoming a suicide bomber and a disenchanted CIa man
disobeying his cynical, inhumane superiors to save a good man. Both have
a man narrowly escaping death in foreign parts and returning, shattered, to
wife and child in the Us.
While the choice was made in Syriana to create a detective-story effect
by concealing clues, fractured tandem would have been another option,
whereby clever rearrangement of a ⊗ could have turned predictable, anti-
climactic storylines into our classic fractured tandem detective story playing
on dread. Fractured tandem would have permitted red herrings and other
surprises within the existing material. ⊨ the film on a ⊕ about vio-
lent death from the end of the film (perhaps the moments before the convoy
is blown up, or before the suicide bombers hit the ship) would have inserted
dread and pumped up the energy instantly.
422 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Were Syriana to be rearranged into a fractured tandem film, it would
need a rosebud twist, but this could be done quite easily by cutting an open-
ing ⊕ in a way that misled the audience.
Syriana’s themes, in a fractured tandem version, would need to be
rethought only a little because the film already looks at tragic accidental con-
nections (one of the recurring subjects of fractured tandem) in the context of
terrorism and corruption.
another option for creating suspense would be Gomorrah’s use of hope
and double-crossing (see p. 196).
multiple ⊛ films
all of the multiple ⊛ films I discuss in this chapter suffer from the
lack of a proper ‘team adventure’; that is, a main action line for the group
caused by:
•
story material that is inherently suited to a multiple ⊛ film
being constructed as if one of its protagonists is the single ⊛
in a conventional one hero/one journey film
•
lack of a group action line, a macro
•
lack of character ⊧
Quite possibly, all of these problems could have been picked up at a very
early stage had it been accepted that the multiple ⊛ film is a com-
mon and valid form, and that sometimes the star will get the best part not by
playing a single hero on the usual journey towards self-knowledge, but as one
of a ⊖-ridden group on a quest, in a siege or at a reunion.
Unfortunately, most scripts that show these problems are so distorted by them
that while they are often full of good writing, they never make it to the screen.
mUlTiPle ⊛ FilmS COnTOrTed inTO THe
Single-HerO mOdel
The belief that every film needs a single ⊛ on a journey to self-
knowledge is so deeply ingrained that filmmakers, faced with story material
that is inherently a group mission, reunion or siege, will often mistake either
the instigator, the traitor within, or the outsider for this traditional single
hero and construct a story around that character. often, that character will
be played by the biggest star, so there is added pressure to keep him or her
firmly in the limelight.
In films like these, the story will pursue this single hero in isolation, away
from what really is the heat of the idea (the group), on a plotline usually
involving uninteresting and often clichéd material about spiritual growth
Parallel ⊚ films with structural flaws 423
and a troubled love life. The result is that there is simply not time or ⊗
left to properly explore the group. hence, when the group appears, it is not
as part of a proper story but in random, colourful scenes focusing on what
are really snapshots of its members. Consequently, the film springs to life
when the group and the instigator are together on the screen, but slows to a
halt when the instigator is off pursuing his or her extraneous story. Techni-
cally, these films have no proper action line because the action line their idea
calls for—a storyline specifically about the group—is not in place. There is no
shared cause, no group adventure.
You can very often pick these films by the curiously weak and clichéd
nature of the hero’s love life—something the writers probably did not see as
clichéd because they were feeling the strength of the group material which,
ironically, they never properly explore. You get the real sense in these films
that the writers were simply going through the motions in constructing what
is deemed an obligatory love interest, subplot material they know was boring
but was assumed to be compulsory.
Doesn’t the star require a big part? of course, but often the attempt to
give the star the giant’s share of the action actually results in a weaker role.
The star will have a much better chance of a great part if they are in ⊖
with their team (like gaz in The Full monty) rather than mooching off and
worrying about uninteresting lovers, as happens in 28 Days, Bootmen, mo’
Better Blues and The Oyster Farmer, each of which I think is treating one
of its multiple protagonists as a single hero, and damaging the film in the
process.
28 days
PrOblemS
•
multiple ⊛ story constructed as single-⊛ film
•
the outsider (also the star) as single ⊛
In 28 Days, sandra Bullock plays gwen Cummings, an alcoholic who is sent
into rehab for twenty-eight days. once there, she joins a funny and endearing
group of reforming addicts who are attempting to put on a show as part of
their therapy. When gwen and the group are on screen, the film sparkles. But
when the group is off screen, all gwen has left to do is complain to her psy-
chologist (talking heads) or deal with her unrepentant alcoholic boyfriend
(who, actually, is well drawn). however, nothing is really happening on
screen during these episodes, so they get boring, and gwen, who has nothing
to do except grumble, appears irritatingly self-indulgent as a consequence.
424 The 21st-Century Screenplay
The heat of the idea is ‘petulant woman alcoholic gets incarcerated for 28
days with other abusers and turns her life around by interacting with them
as they all put on a play’. It is a group story featuring many versions of the
same ⊛, a drug addict trying to reform. since this is missing, the
film has no group action line, no adventure to which the relationship mate-
rial, including gwen’s growth, can be pegged. had the film been constructed
around what it is clearly pulling towards—a multiple ⊛ group
quest of the ‘let’s put on a show’ variety—there would been a clear, dynamic,
funny team adventure with built-in rising tension that would have permitted
a dynamic exploration not only of gwen’s reformation but, through all the
other versions of alcoholics, the topic of alcoholism itself, surely one of the
film’s points.
arguably, the film is pulling towards being a ‘coming-of-age’ film, with
gwen being the person who learns from multiple mentor antagonists.
bootmen
PrOblemS
•
multiple ⊛ story constructed as single-⊛ film
•
the instigator (also the star) as single ⊛
Bootmen is another example of a lost ‘let’s put on a show’ group story. lack-
ing a team adventure, it has no strong central action line. Directed and
co-written by Dein Perry (from the dance troupe Tap Dogs) and intended to
showcase the macho tap-dancing style that he and his group pioneered and
made world famous, the film comes alive when the macho dancers are inter-
acting. It has some great dancing and the group does put on a show right at
the very end, but ultimately it fails to properly pursue the heat of the material
(a group of great tap dancers, as they rise to fame) because it spends so much
time on a clichéd ⊗ about a single ⊛, sean, a young working-
class tapper-cum-steelworker who blows his chance of tap dancing in sydney
and returns to his native steel city only to find that, as well as getting into
crime, his brother mitch has stolen his girl.
mitch’s problems proliferate and sean eventually leads his troupe to suc-
cess, but so much time has been spent on the tired steel town story and the
redundant love story that by the time the big show happens the film’s energy
has been compromised.
Strictly Ballroom dealt with one aspiring dancer and appropriately
used a single ⊛ structure about a man fascinated by dancing and
determined to succeed. Bootmen should be about the same thing—except
Parallel ⊚ films with structural flaws 425
that in this case it’s a group of aspiring dancers fascinated with danc-
ing and determined to succeed. The dancers are much more interesting
and original than the bland ‘love interest’ girlfriend or the hoods mitch
gets involved with, or anything in the brotherhood story. like 28 Days,
Bootmen gets distracted from what is original and interesting in its story
material—the group—by its assumption that every film has to be about a
single hero. It ends up with a ⊗ that for the most part has nothing to do
with its most saleable commodity; a commodity, ironically, that is clearly
mentioned in the title. The title is not Bootman, it’s Bootmen, and the heat
is the idea of great dancing from a great dance troupe. The ⊗ that would
best serve the material (indeed the ⊗ the script is clearly already pulling
towards) is a Full monty, multiple ⊛ quest story, vividly original
and centrally concerned with the adventures and internal conflicts of a
group of great and unlikely dancers as they are led to fame by sean, in the
role of a gaz-like instigator and undermined by mitch as ‘traitor within’.
all the ingredients are there.
mo’ better blues
PrOblemS
•
multiple ⊛ story constructed as single-⊛ film
•
the traitor within (also the star) as single ⊛
spike lee’s film mo’ Better Blues has an almost identical problem to Bootmen.
It is another ‘let’s put on a show’ group story (this time about multiple ver-
sions of an african american musician) contorted into a one-hero film, with
a traitor within turned into a sole ⊛. The traitor within rendered as
⊛ is Bleek (Denzel Washington), a brilliant trumpeter, who plays in a
jazz band consisting of old friends and managed by giant (spike lee), another
old friend, who is not only a hopeless manager but also a hopeless gambler.
Bleek’s dilemma is whether to stay in the band with his friends or leave the
band to fulfil his obvious star potential. Whenever the band and giant make
an appearance with Bleek the film comes alive. But when giant and the band
are not around, all Bleek is given in the way of a ⊗ is the choice between two
equally uninteresting girlfriends, presumably because, as in Bootmen, it was felt
that the hero had to have the obligatory love interest as his relationship line.
actually, like sean the dancer, what Bleek the musician needs as his rela-
tionship line is the group; in Bleek’s case, a study of his divided loyalties in a
group adventure. This sort of story would cover the interaction of the group
as the band prepares for or puts on some kind of special show, or goes on a
426 The 21st-Century Screenplay
special tour, with giant as the instigator and various band members playing
outsider, (including perhaps, the white girlfriend of a band member cur-
rently in the existing script in an interesting but underdeveloped race-related
story strand). But nothing like this happens. The film has no real action line
because there is no team adventure. Despite some fine performances, mo’
Better Blues becomes essentially talking heads.
It finally ends with a curiously clichéd ⊗ that has nothing to do with
Bleek’s dilemma about the band or the girlfriend. Bleek’s lip is injured in a
fight when he comes to the rescue of giant, so much so that he is no longer
able to play the trumpet. The ⊗ has become, literally, ‘I’ll never play again’,
with Bleek’s final moments given over to another cliché, where we leave him
bullying his little son into practising the trumpet.
The Oyster Farmer
PrOblemS
•
multiple ⊛ story constructed as single-⊛ film
•
the outsider as single ⊛
all of the three films above were clearly halfway to being ‘let’s put on a show’
group quests because they already involved teams of dancers, musicians or
actors engaged in performing. In The Oyster Farmer, the director–writer
anna reeves deliberately set out to make a film about the colourful commu-
nity of characters who live and work on the picturesque hawkesbury river
near sydney. While The Oyster Farmer is beautifully shot with some great per-
formances, unfortunately the riverside community comes across merely as a
group of wonderful characters in search of a ⊗. The problem is that the cho-
sen ⊗ does not properly illustrate the community through action. There is
no group quest, reunion or siege involving the whole community. There is
no team assembled for an adventure. Instead, the central ⊗ involves Jack,
a young outsider who, having attempted to commit the perfect armed rob-
bery in order to pay his sick sister’s hospital bills, puts the stolen money into
an envelope and posts it to himself on the hawkesbury, where he gets a job
and waits for the envelope to arrive. as the young man goes about his life on
the river, the colourful riverside people, including vietnam veterans, make
occasional appearances, behaving eccentrically in fragments of a ⊗ about
the problems of oyster farming.
When the river people are on screen, the film is full of energy and vital-
ity. Unfortunately, so much time is devoted to the bland young man and his
problems—none of which is particularly original or interesting and none of
Parallel ⊚ films with structural flaws 427
which is unique to a river community as both love story and ‘perfect crime’ ⊗
could have happened anywhere—that there is no time to properly explore the
genuinely original and interesting river people. The film stops when Jack and
the crime story are in the spotlight. meanwhile, the river community is in the
background, just, really, being itself.
It’s hard not to feel that Jack’s crime story was inserted because of the per-
ception that all films must have at their centre a single hero with their own
⊗, regardless of how weak that ⊗ is. If the river community as a whole
had been involved in the perfect crime (with Jack as instigator or outsider)
and/or the community had been faced with a threat or a benefit that could
have galvanised them into action, the film would have had a group adventure
permitting full exploitation of its heat, the river people, and Jack could have
had a rich relationship line involving them (including the river girl he falls
in love with).
as often happens, a clue to the disjunction between idea and storyline
here is in the title. Just as Bootmen is about only one dancer, so The Oyster
Farmer is not about one oyster farmer. There are actually several oyster farm-
ers (in fact, the most interesting part of the film is the battle between two
oyster farmers, husband and wife), and Jack only becomes an oyster farmer
right at the end of the film. While the director wanted to write about oyster
farmers, the central story is not about being an oyster farmer. It’s about hid-
ing out after a robbery and getting a job as a labourer on an oyster lease.
Possibly, Jack started out being a ‘literary device’ (see pp. 145–6).
lack of a proper macro
earlier, describing multiple ⊛ films, I mentioned that they all have
the same macro ⊗ (an action line that dramatises the question: ‘Will the
group survive?’), and that death or the threat of it often figures, even in comic
or optimistic versions. I want to look at the lack of survival macro in Peter’s
Friends, The Ice Storm and The Thin Red Line.
Peter’s Friends and The ice Storm
PrOblemS
•
multiple ⊛ story lacking macro
•
death threat too late
Both Peter’s Friends and The Ice Storm, very fine as they are in many ways,
lack energy and the action in each seems to be circling in search of a ⊗.
neither puts its group under threat of survival except by implication in the
428 The 21st-Century Screenplay
closing moments, when death makes an appearance. although each is clearly
a social siege and both seem to contain characters who feel like the instigator,
outsider and traitor within, neither has a proper group action line, a proper
survival macro, so there is no quest, siege or reunion that forces the char-
acters to reassess and explore their relationships. excellent as many of the
performances are, and poignant as the stories turn out to be, both films are
a matter of characters in search of a ⊗—beautifully written but ultimately
disappointing (because pointless) social vignettes.
It’s interesting to speculate whether putting the death material that
currently appears at the end of each film (aIDs in Peter’s Friends and the
electrocution in The Ice Storm) at the start, as the cause of a specific quest,
siege or reunion, would have provided a better way to explore the tensions
and unfinished business of the group. as we’ve seen, death invariably appears
in multiple ⊛ films, and often in the ⊨ moments of social
siege films, to which Peter’s Friends and The Ice Storm clearly, I think, belong
(think of American Beauty, The Big Chill, The Jane Austen Book Club etc.).
The films Topsy-Turvy and Parallel Lives seem to suggest that death
inserted early would have fixed the meandering. Both films circle randomly
between characters being themselves until death appears, in Topsy-Turvy as
a near-fatal illness, and in Parallel Lives a murder (which happens over an
hour into the film).
Inserting the news of death at the start would of course, have created very
different films out of Peter’s Friends and The Ice Storm, with very different
styles and content. Perhaps both films intended to be slow, lyrical and open-
ended, and certainly many people enjoyed them very much indeed. however,
it’s possible that their genuinely interesting characters would have been richer
and more complex if the film had given them major issues to explore and
illustrate during the course of the action, rather than just, as at present, the
ennui and quiet desperation of their lives. They would not have been stuck
just being themselves, acting characteristically to no end or point. In other
words, they would have had a story. The Ice Storm would have ventured into
the territory of Ordinary People, with the adult and child members of the
group exploring their feelings about the dead boy. Peter’s Friends would have
started with a shock as the threat of death was announced. Its reunion might
have played a little like The Big Chill as the group sought to comfort Peter and
regroup to fight the threat. Perhaps it might have explored impending death
by aIDs in a way akin to Love! Valor! Compassion! notice that The Ice Storm
is constructed as preview flashback, as if it is feeling it needs to set up death.
Parallel ⊚ films with structural flaws 429
The Thin red line
PrOblemS
•
multiple ⊛ film lacking clear macro
•
choice not to have strong plotlines?
•
instigator, outsider, traitor within?
•
too many characters?
•
ongoing normality?
•
characterisation?
I have put question marks next to the list of problems above because for some
audiences they were not problems at all. For many people, The Thin Red Line
is the ultimate anti-war film, moreover a film that broke new ⊚ ground
to powerfully and lyrically transmit a sense of futility and repetitiousness of
war using an excitingly large cast. however, other audiences had a mixed
response, feeling that while the film clearly had many strong points, it was
flawed. Common criticisms were that there were too many characters who
were under-developed and hard to differentiate (particularly when they were
in helmets); that the film was slow and repetitive; that there was insufficient
⊗ and that the ⊞-overs were intrusive and sounded like the same soldier.
These criticisms are interesting because they all relate to structural mat-
ters we’ve looked at in the chapters dealing with the creation of multiple
⊛ films. The Thin Red Line has deliberately made certain very risky
⊚ choices in order to transmit its message. some audiences loved the
effect, others hated it. Just as it was important to us as writers to understand
how Short Cuts created its open-ended effects, so it is important to under-
stand the ⊚ choices made in The Thin Red Line and the risks those
choices might bring.
TOO many CHaraCTerS?
realistically, you only have time in a multiple ⊛ film to follow
about six or seven characters in the depth that audiences expect. If you try to
include more, as The Thin Red Line does, you end up spending a lot of time
setting up characters you then cannot explore, risking leaving the audience
doubly frustrated.
inSUFFiCienT ⊗ and CHaraCTeriSaTiOn?
While the film is definitely about whether a group of soldiers will survive the
war, so might seem to contain the survival macro that multiple ⊛
films need, in fact it contains no clear group action line—no specific new
430 The 21st-Century Screenplay
mission, siege or reunion. This is deliberate. It has been done to illustrate the
film’s philosophy about the pointlessness of war and the frustration of indi-
viduals trapped within its endless repetitive cycles, and it certainly does that.
Unfortunately, this is a double-edged sword. It also works to reduce energy
levels because without a threat that puts the group at risk there can be little
suspense. audiences are used to having suspenseful storylines, so to eschew
that is to throw down a major challenge. and The Thin Red Line throws down
a major challenge indeed. There is such minimal change in the course of the
film that it would be possible recut it so that scenes from the end went into
the ⊤. similarly, if you fast-forward the film for most of the time you
can guess what characters are saying to each other. This is not what audiences
expect and it will alienate many.
another problem created by the lack of a group action line is how to
characterise. Characterisation in film is normally done by showing charac-
ters forced to act in response to a change in their lives. Without a proper
quest, siege or reunion group story to throw characters into ⊖ and self-
revelation, the relationships between characters are inevitably jammed in
one spot. additionally, as far as individuals themselves are concerned, each
character stays in the same emotional normality because there is no external
force to make them change. each has the same problems and world view they
had when the film started. They simply demonstrate different versions of the
same behaviour. hence, we will see a cynical sergeant reacting to a situa-
tion in his cynical way, we will see an ambition-crazed colonel reacting to a
situation in terms of his ambition, we will see a man obsessed with his wife
daydreaming about her every time he goes into battle, and so on. It is very
well-written but ultimately unproductive character study. The characters are
simply repeating their own normality, as in mr Saturday Night. This is what
is causing the ‘vignettes’ effect, which some audiences loved but others found
frustrating.
one place where the film does seem to have paid a high price for its deci-
sion not to use proper storylines is in the treatment of the soldier sustained
by love for his wife. The man finally receives a letter from her telling him she
is in love with someone else. This is a heart-breaking moment and we expect
to follow him, seeing its consequences, tragic or hopeful. But this does not
happen. We never see him dealing with it in any way at all. Possibly this odd
avoidance of the expected storyline has its origins in the book the film was
based on. Prose often depicts character by thought, not action. Possibly the
soldier’s story was satisfactorily resolved in a paragraph of moving prose. In
the film, we feel left in mid air.
Parallel ⊚ films with structural flaws 431
inSTigaTOr, TraiTOr wiTHin and OUTSider
There is no proper instigator (because there is no group adventure caused by
such a person) and without an instigator and a quest there can be no traitor
within. It seems initially that one character will be the instigator, but he soon
disappears from prominence, to re-emerge at the end as the group’s saviour,
a status he does not earn through the action and which consequently feels a
little contrived. The lack of an instigator (and a threat) makes The Thin Red
Line like The Ice Storm, but The Ice Storm has more emotional movement
because of ⊗ elements like the sexual experimentation between both adults
and children and the final death of the likeable child. There is no clear out-
sider because part of the film’s aim is to depict all of the soldiers as outsiders.
This brings us to a matter pointed out by many, namely that the charac-
ters don’t feel like different versions of the same ⊛—‘the soldier
stuck in war’. Instead, they feel like the same ⊛—the same soldier
stuck in war. The ⊞-overs definitely create this effect. as many people
have said, they all sound like the same thoughtful, wistful and poetic man in
slightly different moods, so much so that it is often hard to work out which
character is actually talking in ⊞-over. often the different voices are only
distinguishable by their accents, not their world view, and without the cam-
era pointing at the speaker we could not tell them apart. Was the ⊞-over
based on the ⊚ ⊞ of the novelist? In a novel, a strong, intelligent
and unique prose ⊚ ⊞ can hold together all manner of structural
weaknesses. In a film, which shows rather than tells, uses ⊗ rather than
soliloquy, it can’t.
HelmeTS
We should not leave storytelling issues in The Thin Red Line without noting
a small but vital matter. as many people have mentioned, it is often hard to
work out which soldier was which in scenes where all are wearing helmets.
We looked at identification problems caused by uniforms, and possible solu-
tions, on p. 146. It’s very easy to forget such basic storytelling matters in the
complexity of writing the script.
Parallel lives
PrOblemS
•
no survival macro
•
no instigator, outsider, traitor within
•
poor relationship lines
•
too many characters
432 The 21st-Century Screenplay
•
ongoing normality
•
delayed disturbance/first-act turning point
•
redundant ⊖
•
poor ⊝
many writers are drawn to write film scripts about reunions of friends, fam-
ily or colleagues for births, marriages, deaths or holidays. The advantages are
clear: reunions provide the opportunity for a range of interesting, equally
weighted characters, a particularly attractive option in days when ensem-
bles of actors make good box-office sense. also, because of the unfinished
business built into any reunion, the story has ready-made ⊖. But many
reunion films fail, and many others are abandoned at early stages, because
they are unfocused, slow and, in the worst cases, actively boring, all the result
of having no macro—no action line involving a threat to group survival. This
is a major problem in Parallel Lives.
Parallel Lives is about a college reunion and was promoted on the basis that
it was the Big Chill of the nineties. It features twenty characters (ex- students
of the college) who play a significant part in the action, and two others who
appear at the end. after all of the characters have been set up (which takes
a long time—characters are still being introduced twenty minutes into the
film), we see reunion activities such as a dance, a raid on the women’s dorm,
and a sports carnival. Close to the end, the much-disliked seducer, Peter, is
found dead in his car in the river. many people have a motive for his murder,
and one woman, a senate candidate, was actually in the car. her father, an
elected senator, covers up. everyone goes home, with many of the relation-
ship subplots unresolved. Unfortunately, despite a stellar cast, fine acting and
interesting characters, the film is boring.
Parallel Lives assumes that a reunion is of itself a good structure, and
therefore does not bother about a survival macro until well after an hour into
the action, when it seizes on the cliché of a murder. In a proper structure,
the murder would be the disturbance or the first-act turning point. It would
be what the film is ‘about’, in the way that Gosford Park is ‘about’ a murder
which permits explorations of the nature of the group and the motivations
of individuals. In Parallel Lives, the murder story should provide the means
through which the characters reveal themselves. as it is, it serves no useful
purpose at all.
Instead of character being revealed through the pressure of events in the
macro, the group action line, character exploration in Parallel Lives is con-
ducted through a vast number of scenes in which two characters discuss the
Parallel ⊚ films with structural flaws 433
past. often the unfinished business between the characters is unconnected
to their relationship at college, which means that their relationship dilemma
is pulling away from the action line of the reunion. For example, one of the
major relationship lines seems to be a love–hate relationship between two
tough journalists, Wynn and nick. They once slept together and nick pub-
lished a scathing article about the event, but since none of this happened at
college it is not informing the premise of the film; rather, it is pulling the film
elsewhere.
similarly, the events that do happen to the group—the ball, the raid on the
dorm and the sports carnival—are not used to take the characters anywhere
either. They are used merely to show the characters behaving in character;
in other words, repeating the same normality, as happened in mr Saturday
Night. like mr Saturday Night, Parallel Lives assumes that good characters
with good ⊖ and interesting unfinished business will automatically
make a good story—moreover, the more good characters, the better. In fact
the vast number of characters makes the film very difficult to follow, and the
concentration on talking-heads relationship scenes in place of an ongoing
action line that involves all the characters, makes the film slow and tedious.
The film is very much a matter of characters in search of a ⊗.
That a film can be tedious despite good characters, good ⊖, complex
unfinished business and good acting demonstrates that multiple protago-
nist films do not happen without planning and a good survival macro that
will force the group and individuals on an emotional journey. The Big Chill,
which Parallel Lives set out to emulate, is at all times vitally concerned with
the group’s past and its endangered future—indeed, its ideals and worth as
a whole—and there are issues brought into prominence by the suicide of its
most charismatic member. The individuals are dealt with in terms of their
role in the group in the past, the present, and the future.
Parallel Lives would also be helped by useful multiple ⊛ charac-
ter types like ‘the traitor within’, ‘the outsider’ and the ‘dominant character’.
double journey ⊚: Cold mountain
PrOblemS
•
passivity of one of the two travellers
•
redundant ⊨ (battle ⊕)
Talking earlier about journey films, I mentioned that sequences in Cold
mountain can be moved around the film without problem, which in any film
is a clear and worrying indication that the characters do not change. another
434 The 21st-Century Screenplay
serious problem in Cold mountain is that ada, the woman waiting for Inman,
has nothing to do except wait. While the book may have been different, the
film of Cold mountain is inherently a double journey film. We can see this
in successful double journey films such as Brokeback mountain, The Queen,
The Lives of Others, The Departed, The Lemon Tree and Finding Nemo. Dou-
ble journey films demand that the action follows two characters separately,
which means that each of the two needs their own ⊚ and their own
adventure. You cannot have one of your two travellers just waiting, as ada
does. ada is so passive that the action on the home front eventually has to be
taken over by a new character, the dynamic, proactive housemaid, because
all that has been happening for some time is that ada has been gradually and
passively starving to death.
notice too that the film has a very expensive ⊨ battle ⊟
that is entirely redundant ⊗-wise because it triggers nothing and the only
point it makes is that war is hell. not only is this a huge waste of money (cru-
cial in many film industries), ⊮ squanders the precious first moments
of the film. The next ⊕, the flashback to the first meeting of Inman and
ada, is similarly wasteful of time, as very little is transmitted about the two
protagonists.
Perhaps a version of the non-linear Odyssey model (the woman being
forced to marry, while the male lover has to reach her before the marriage)
would have worked better for Cold mountain (see pp. 370–5, Consecutive
stories). In the existing version, the villainous bully Teague is already lusting
after her, but this storyline is not pursued.
an even better story option might have been for ada to have her own
mission (like Telemachus, or nemo in Finding Nemo), either in addition to
or instead of the forced marriage or rape involving Teague.
Perhaps because Cold mountain was adapted from a novel, changing
the story content in such a radical way was not an option. however, all film
adaptations must work as films and in a film you cannot have an actor just
standing there. again, the widespread belief that a film needs and can have
only one ⊛ probably contributes to passive ‘travellers’ like ada
because Inman was probably perceived as the film’s one hero.
Flashback: mr Saturday night
PrOblemS
•
poor use of double flashback ⊚
•
repeating the normality
•
weak action line
Parallel ⊚ films with structural flaws 435
•
redundant ⊖
•
life story in place of proper structure
•
character study in place of ⊗
•
wrong ⊛?
mr Saturday Night is the life story of a stand-up comedian (Billy Crystal)
whose ego continually forces him to commit acts against his own professional
and personal interests. We meet the comedian in old age, unable to get work
because he has offended so many people. his life from adolescence onwards
is depicted via flashbacks, while the story in the present follows his attempts
to get work with the assistance of a young theatrical agent (helen hunt).
Finally, he is given the chance of a comeback: a role in a film being made
by an important director. Typically, he rejects the role as not good enough.
There is a subplot about his difficult relationship with his daughter and his
bullying treatment of his brother. at the end he is reconciled with both.
Billy Crystal wrote, directed and starred in the film. Unfortunately,
despite an acting tour de force from Crystal, fine performances from his sup-
porting cast, and finely characterised individual sequences and scenes, the
film does not engage. The reason is structural. The film does not provide a
story in which the ⊛ is faced with a dilemma and moves through
its ramifications to a ⊝. Instead it provides a range of different versions
of the same normality, which is: ‘good comedian bullies his brother and acts
self-destructively’. This is ultimately boring because each version of ‘good
comedian bullies his brother and acts self-destructively’ is providing essen-
tially the same information. What is being shown is a character study, not a
character driven to action by outside events.
Instead of being ‘good comedian bullies his brother and acts self-
destructively’ (which is a character in search of a ⊗, a character jammed
in its normality), the film should have been ‘good comedian who acts self-
destructively is presented with a dilemma which will test him—and he is
tested and resolves the problem successfully or unsuccessfully.’ The differ-
ence can be pinpointed by asking what the film is ‘about’, as this question
will usually provide the first-act turning point. It will describe a surprising
event (a surprise that turns into an obstacle). If a description of what the film
is ‘about’ results in a character description rather than a surprising event,
there is a major problem. It means that at best the ⊗ lacks a first-act turn-
ing point. In the case of mr Saturday Night, the film does not have a useful
action line at all.
Certainly people in real life do get stuck within the same normality. They
436 The 21st-Century Screenplay
do fail to change and they do repeat the same mistakes and the same jokes.
But in a film, a little repetition goes a long way. If mr Saturday Night was
intended to show a character who could not change, a better way might have
been to give one or two examples of his repetitiveness within a ⊗ in which
special circumstances seem to give him no option but to change although, at
the last moment, it turns out he can’t. For example, a genuine dilemma would
be if his marriage depended on him taking a role that he felt was beneath him
and which, despite everything, he couldn’t force himself to take. Putting a
character in a dilemma engages the audience. They can empathise. a charac-
ter not in a dilemma is ultimately boring.
actor–writers, whose training is so heavily biased towards character analy-
sis, are particularly prone to mistake character study for ⊗, to mistake scenes
that depict character foibles for a scenario. The point to remember is that a
⊗ places the ⊛ in a dilemma that he or she has to resolve by action.
If there is no dilemma, there is no story. Using a ⊚ sentence would have
helped pinpoint the lack of an action line driven by the main character.
The need in a film for a heightened, selective reality and a specific dilemma,
is why a character’s life story is not of itself suitable for a film. It is easy to
assume that a character’s life is a ready-made structure ⊮ is not, just as a
journey is not automatically a ready-made structure. To successfully depict
a life (as in, for example, Shine), life-changing events have to be selected that
will properly propel whatever interpretation of the life the writer wishes to
depict. In Shine, each ⊕ moved the story forward, and each flashback
started and ended at a structural high point. The same thing happened in The
Remains of the Day.
Unfortunately, mr Saturday Night assumes that major events from a life—
as opposed to life-changing events from that life—provide a good structure,
which results in ⊗ sequences that are interesting of themselves but that,
having no forward movement, slow the film and leave the audience without
a story to follow. again, identifying the film’s ⊚ sentence would have
pinpointed these weaknesses.
The film’s relationship line in the past, which features the difficult relation-
ship between the comedian and his brother, wife and daughter, also suffers
from repetition of the normality. They are all jammed in the same interac-
tion. a proper, dynamic action line would have permitted the relationship
line to move.
mr Saturday Night is also a useful example of redundant ⊖. While
the film is full of conflicts and quarrels, the ⊖ is redundant because the
quarrels are all essentially the same quarrel, and nothing is changed by them.
Parallel ⊚ films with structural flaws 437
With its failed ⊛ in search of success, mr Saturday Night seems
ideal for double ⊚ flashback (thwarted dream). The film already uses
flashbacks, but they are not successful, partly because of the film’s lack of a
strong action line in the past, meaning there are no strong turning points
where flashbacks can start and end, partly because the story in the present
is not ‘a detective story of the heart’ and also because, in the present, the
⊛ has not experienced a second-act ‘death’ from which he is reborn
with a new agenda and the energy to restart the quest. These are all problems
that cause low jeopardy.
The first question to answer in a situation like this where double narra-
tive flashback appears to be an option is whether flashback of any kind is the
right structure to use. The answer depends on what story is to be told. If the
story is primarily about the present, then double ⊚ flashback is prob-
ably not the answer. But if the intention is to tell of an attempt to achieve a
lost ambition, then thwarted dream would be suitable. similarly, if the story
is about someone who persistently damages himself, then possibly case his-
tory would be appropriate. In both cases, the ⊗ would have to be radically
restructured in order to create proper turning points and in particular a good
triggering incident.
another issue raised by an unsuccessful ‘character-based’ film like mr
Saturday Night is whether the right ⊛ has been chosen. While the
obvious assumption is that the comedian is the ⊛, the film structure
might well work more successfully if the comedian—who is par excellence an
unchanging, infuriating but charismatic character—were the mentor antago-
nist to a ‘normal’ ⊛, such as his daughter or the literary agent. The
pattern then would be similar to Scent of a Woman.
The comedian as mentor ⊣ is compatible with either of the
double flashback ⊚ structures. Using thwarted dream flashback, the
comedian would be the ⊛ in the past and an unknowable mentor
⊣ in the present, with his daughter or the young agent being the
detective ⊛. In case history flashback, the comedian is charismatic
mentor ⊣ in both past and present.
The lessons to be learnt from mr Saturday Night are that flashbacks
without a ⊚ structure become boring, that a life is not necessarily a
ready-made structure, that an ongoing normality gets boring, that even the
most fascinating character becomes boring unless placed in a dilemma that
creates a series of choices and builds to a ⊝, that ⊖ needs to be
productive and that the most interesting character is often better handled as
a charismatic mentor ⊣ rather than a ⊛.
438 The 21st-Century Screenplay
gods and monsters
PrOblemS
•
central character’s motives and past not properly explored
•
possibly better told through double ⊚ case history flashback?
Gods and monsters is a deeply moving film about the last days of James
Whale, the enigmatic director of films like Showboat, Frankenstein and Bride
of Frankenstein, who, born into poverty with a brutal father, invented a past
for himself in which he was the son of a genteel cleric. as Gods and monsters
won many prizes, including the academy award for Best screenplay adapta-
tion, what is it doing in a section entitled ‘lost in the Telling’? The reason for
this is that while much of the heat of Whale’s story lies in why such a success-
ful man felt the need to lie, and what really happened in his past, particularly
in his traumatic childhood, the film barely touches this, instead it spends a
lot of time firstly showing that Whale was homosexual and a sexual predator
and secondly, depicting the relationship between Whale and a young man
who acts as an artist’s model for him; all things which, while they tell us
something about the man, don’t really take us very far and could have been
dealt with in a few scenes. This disappointed many audiences.
Gods and monsters does contain some fleeting but ultimately uninforma-
tive flashbacks to Whale’s childhood. There is also the suggestion throughout
that the character of Frankenstein’s monster was in some deep way significant,
even symbolic, in his life. however, what the monster actually symbolised
precisely is unclear. his father? his sexuality? War and death? his need to
confabulate?
given that the film is setting out to tell the story of a famous and very
talented enigmatic outsider who dies with his lies unexplained, it’s tempting
to speculate that case history double ⊚ flashback, or perhaps preview
flashback, would have been a more useful way to get across more facts while
maintaining the man’s essential mystery. In a double ⊚ case history,
the film would be a little like Citizen Kane or Amadeus. The film would open
on the death of Whale and, rather than being a ⊛, Whale would
always remain an unfathomable mentor ⊣. We would find out about
his past through the accounts of people who knew him across various areas
of his life, told in flashbacks to an investigator figure. The great triumph of
this form is not only that it would have permitted everything that is currently
in the film but also much that isn’t (for example, much more about Whale as
a director, surely the main reason we are interested in him) but also, and, sat-
isfyingly, in the end Whale, like kane and mozart, would remain ultimately
Parallel ⊚ films with structural flaws 439
inexplicable. This way, the man’s mystery and contradictions would become a
feature of the film, rather than a gap in the story. Case history flashback is an
excellent form for biographies of famous and/or enigmatic people whom, like
Whale, you might wish to leave, at the end of the story, still unfathomable.
Consecutive stories: vantage Point
PrOblemS
•
repetitious
•
action movie not suited to consecutive stories form?
Vantage Point uses repetitions to show different witness views of an
assassination. You would think this would be a very suitable topic for a
different- perspectives structure, but the film actually angered many audi-
ences who felt its repetitions were tedious and added nothing but instead
became an end in themselves.
Probably not enough new information is revealed in each of Vantage
Point’s repetitions to warrant so many retellings. The repetitions simply add
to the facts of what happened, whereas the repetitions in Rashomon, Run
Lola Run, The Nines and Groundhog Day show very different versions of the
facts and raise a whole series of new questions. more ruthless truncation (as
in Groundhog Day) would probably have helped, as would, probably, fewer
characters having their perspectives depicted. additionally, there is no real
twist at the end of Vantage Point, although one person we think will die is
saved.
COnSPiraCy aCTiOn THriller PerHaPS nOT SUiTed TO
THiS STrUCTUre?
arguably, the film just has too much story. It seeks to be not just a film about
different versions of what might happen, like Run Lola Run, Rashomon and
The Nines, but also a conspiracy thriller that shows the criminals caught at the
end after a dramatic car chase and crash. There is not enough screen time for
this. The repetitions required by the different-perspectives approach do not
leave enough screen time for the complex twists and turns of ⊗ required
by a conspiracy thriller. after all the repetitions are completed, there is only
time for a chase and a capture. moreover, because the audience knows both
that a car chase is coming and what is going to happen at the end of the car
chase, the only suspense in the car chase lies in its physical danger, with many
critics comparing it to a computer game.
But aren’t James Bond films conspiracy thrillers crossed with action
440 The 21st-Century Screenplay
movies ⊥ in a third-act chase? Yes, but James Bond’s problem is set up
in ⊬, and the second and third act provide a complex adventure that
solves it. In contrast, Vantage Point structurally is all set-up and ⊝—and
no ⊦. It never even gets to a proper first-act turning point—though the
shock identity of the assassinated man feels like a first-act turning point it
is not pursued. Unlike Run Lola Run, Rashomon and Groundhog Day, the
repetitions in Vantage Point start at the disturbance, not the first-act turning
point, and stay there, circling, as we try to work out how the assassination
was done. We then jump straight from this extended disturbance and plan
to ⊝.
When all is said and done, the mystery is actually solved quite easily, by
the ⊛ linking two events. By the time he has done that (after all the
repetitions) there is no time for a developing suspenseful ⊦ and exciting
third act. Consequently, the film splits into two: long set-up plus final chase.
Fractured tandem films can work with plots that have truncated second acts
and a change of story in the ⊦, but their story content and structure is
very different, and their specific kind of non-linearity artificially creates ‘a
⊦’ (in terms of rising suspense) in the ⊦ of the screen time.
Perhaps the moral for consecutive stories films about different perspec-
tives is: ‘Don’t think of the repeated events as the start of the movie, think of
them as the movie’. That is, your film is about the question of different per-
spectives, not what happens as a consequence of them.
Fractured tandem: bad education
PrOblem
•
central disjunction, possibly avoided via fractured tandem?
While Bad Education has a devoted following, some people have a prob-
lem with its story switches, in particular with the jolt that occurs with the
return of manolo and the consequent change in the film’s direction. Pedro
almodóvar spent a long while planning the episodic structure of the film, so
clearly wanted this jolt. The problem with story switches—and why writers
are warned off them—is that they make the audience care about one set of
issues and characters, only to rob them of these issues and characters before
⊡, and force them to transfer their interest to other stories, issues
and characters that are completely new. For many people, the story switch in
Bad Education is unsatisfactory for exactly those reasons.
Bad Education features an ⊨ in the present, a long exposition-heavy
flashback to the past, a return to present, some time spent in the present, then
Parallel ⊚ films with structural flaws 441
a switch of story when Father manolo, the paedophile priest from the past,
suddenly reappears, reformed and contrite. Interestingly, it’s hard to describe
Bad Education—with its flashback and central story switch—without feel-
ing that it is pulling towards the kind of story-switch structure we’ve seen in
21 Grams. In fact, it’s intriguing to look at the idea of restructuring the film
as fractured tandem, with flashforwards around ⊢ to man olo’s later
appearance to sew its stories together, concealing the gap.
restructuring the film into fractured tandem would not be hard at all. The
content wouldn’t need to be changed, simply the way it’s arranged. as well as
having flashforwards, it would probably work well if it opened like 21 Grams,
with a strong, ominous ⊕ near the second-act turning point (after the
story switch—to jump the gap) preferably a ⊕ involving death, so death
and the threat of it could permeate the film. The ⊥ would need the usual
surprises and twists, something that Bad Education already has, because it is
already a kind of detective story, as fractured tandem requires. The film also
already includes the requisite unexpected death. With this and with its una-
voidably top-heavy set-up (you have to know about the child sexual abuse
to understand the motivation of the adults) the film is a very clear candidate
for fractured tandem, as much as, if not more so than, Syriana and Prelude
to a Kiss.
This page intentionally left blank
Part 6
getting it on
the Page
This page intentionally left blank
445
Chapter 54
⊕ writing: exposition,
backstory and subtext
ThIs ParT oF The book deals with the details of the individual ⊕: how
to write ⊘ with good exposition, backstory and subtext, and how to
write camera and acting directions. exposition means transmitting informa-
tion. Backstory is what happened before the film started. subtext is what is
going on in a character’s mind behind their expressions, behaviour or words,
often in direct contrast to these.
Just generally with ⊕ writing, don’t drop into automatic pilot. You will
always be able to write a ⊕. The issue is whether it’s useful (see also Part
3, Practical Plotting).
⊨ scenes
You have the audience’s maximum attention and goodwill in the ⊨
scenes, so exploit it. We’ve discussed the clever openings of The Big Chill, Gal-
axy Quest and American Beauty. make your film, like these, quickly establish
the identity and normality of the ⊛(s), hence what and whose story
we’re in, by transmitting a lot of facts unobtrusively via scenario, ⊘,
backstory, sound and visuals. You need to establish the ⊛’s social
and personal background (their job, class, marital status, country and era
they are in etc.) and what sort of person the ⊛ is, with some hints
of both their good points and their failings.
Starting and ⊥ a ⊕
Ideally, the ⊨ of the ⊕, like the ⊨ of the film as a whole, should
‘hook’ in the audience with an interesting idea or event. The traditional motto is:
‘a ⊕ should open at the last possible moment beyond which it becomes unin-
telligible and leave at the earliest’. I would amend that to ‘come in with a twist (a
striking moment, or just before a striking moment) and go out with a question or
implied question.’ This adds pace, because each ⊕ has added surprise caused
by the sudden entry, and suspense caused by the sudden, thought-provoking
exit, an exit that makes the audience want to see what happens next.
445
446 The 21st-Century Screenplay
The ‘watershed’ line
In important scenes, there is often a line of ⊘ that causes the world
to change for the characters. exit the ⊕ after the delivery of that line.
When you get to second draft you will often find that the start of a ⊕ is
redundant and you can cut it. guillermo arriaga says he never writes a ⊕
longer than a page or a page and three-quarters if it contains ⊘. he
adds: ‘one page makes you very careful of what you are telling. one page
pushes every writer to know what the ⊕ is.’
Transition scenes
Transition scenes are often redundant, clichéd and waste screen time and
money. For example, almost every ⊕ in which the ⊛ is on a
plane doing nothing except receiving a drink is redundant.
exposition and backstory
Transmit these with subtlety and don’t forget visuals and sound. never make
characters volunteer information beyond credible limits. If you find yourself
writing speeches that could be entitled ‘The story so far’, or ‘What is going to
happen’, you have exposition problems.
Hidden exPOSiTiOn
In the published script of Being John malkovich (Charlie kaufman, Being John
malkovich (2000, london, pp. 16–17)) there is a short ⊕ in which Craig
and lotte are preparing dinner in their cramped apartment while a parrot yells
‘shut up!’ and ‘sorry, honey!’, a dog barks, a neighbour bangs on the wall and
elijah the pet chimp jumps around in his nappy. The ⊕ is remarkable for
the amount of relationship information it transmits. The two are not arguing,
⊮’s clear that Craig is impatient with the animals, and that lotte knows this
and is ineptly trying to endear herself and the animals to him, particularly by
discussing elijah’s forthcoming trip to his psychiatrist. at the end of the ⊕,
lotte asks whether Craig has thought further about the two of them having
a baby. Craig hedges, saying that this is not a good time to think about such
things because of their financial situation. What the audience knows, but lotte
doesn’t, is that immediately before this Craig was attracted to another woman,
so the ⊕ ends on a very clear question: can the relationship survive?
let’s look at how Charlie kaufman does all this. Firstly, he has chosen to
make us encounter the characters in their normality, which instantly tells us
a great deal visually. additionally, sound here also tells us a huge amount.
The fact that the neighbour can hear the animals and that we can hear the
⊕ writing: exposition, backstory and subtext 447
neighbour immediately tells us that Craig and lotte are living in cheap and
crowded premises. also, for the parrot to have learnt words it must have
heard them many times, hence we know that Craig has said ‘shut up!’ a lot
and that lotte has frequently replied ‘sorry, honey’.
elijah’s appointment with the psychiatrist shows first that lotte is the sort
of person who takes a monkey to see a psychiatrist, second that the therapy
has been going on for a while and third, how out of touch lotte is with Craig,
who clearly couldn’t care less about elijah. But there is a fourth function
at work here: the information actually sets up a later pay-off, when elijah’s
traumatic memories impel him to help lotte escape. hence, a character point
is simultaneously seeding a ⊗ point. The same technique is used at the
start of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, where a lot of ⊗ information and
backstory is transmitted while the audience is focused on the subtext of the
conversation, which is the unexpressed passion between the two warriors.
Sixth draft syndrome
In the current script, this ⊕ is followed by a brilliantly written awkward
dinner-party ⊕ with lotte’s friends. This ⊕ doesn’t appear in the film,
rightly, because it does not further character or ⊗. so why was it there? I
suspect the reason is that it had its origins in an earlier draft of the script in
which there was no discussion of pregnancy. Presumably, the original point of
the dinner party was to show that Craig was testy and the relationship between
Craig and lotte was poor. however, once we know that lotte wants a baby and
Craig doesn’t, and furthermore that Craig is actively interested in other women,
the dinner party is redundant; indeed, would have a slowing effect. This theory
is borne out by a draft of the script I happened across on the internet, before
publication of scripts was—rightly—restricted, in which pregnancy was never
mentioned. It’s very easy to leave in scenes that have been rendered pointless by
later amendments. It is an example of sixth draft syndrome (see p. 148). how-
ever good the ⊕, if it has no function in the story it is likely to drag.
arguments, productive and redundant ⊖
People throw the past back at each other in arguments, so arguments are excellent
places to transmit information dynamically, rapidly and while demonstrating
character. In Donnie Brasco, the time frame and nature of Donnie’s undercover
work are first revealed in detail throughout an argument with his wife.
however, ⊖ in individual scenes must move the story forward,
either ⊗-wise or in terms of how the characters understand their situation:
productive ⊖ makes something change. redundant ⊖ occurs
448 The 21st-Century Screenplay
when the characters are simply batting the same arguments back and forth:
‘You’re a bad father!’, ‘I’m a good father!’, ‘no, you’re a bad father’. nothing
has changed at the end of that exchange. Productive ⊖ is: ‘You’re a bad
father!’, ‘I’m a good father!’, ‘no, you’re a bad father because . . . I overheard
you/mother told me about/I found a letter . . .’ Better still, instead of having
your character repeating ‘You’re a bad father’, have them go straight to their
reasons: ‘I overheard you . . .’ etc.
redundant ⊖ works to stop the ⊗ in its tracks because the ⊗
cannot move until the ‘Yes, you did’/‘no, you didn’t’ static material is con-
cluded. The quarrels between allnutt and rose in The African Queen are
productive because they move the characters in a new direction. The quar-
rels in mr Saturday Night are redundant because they are all essentially the
same row, and because nothing is changed by them. linda seger has excellent
material on ⊖ in making a Good Script Great (3rd edition), Chapter
eleven, ‘Finding the ⊖’.
avoid talking heads
avoid talking-head scenes in which characters sit lengthily swapping infor-
mation. The ‘walk as they talk’ ⊟ (used frequently in The West Wing) is
an old writer’s trick of adding movement to lengthy exposition. another trick
(when you can’t have movement), is to have characters finishing each other’s
sentences (but don’t overdo it). If budget demands impose a static ⊕ on
you, consciously seek ways to add psychological movement. Try putting the
information into the first active ⊕ as part of some action. For example,
if the story demands that two police have to catch a criminal, it is normally
more interesting to open with them in the car on the way to catching the
criminal, with you filling in exposition and backstory as they go, rather than
having them sitting in the cafeteria telling the audience the story so far.
don’t rush exposition
It’s commonly said that newer writers put in too much exposition and expe-
rienced writers put in too little. sometimes delaying explaining a character’s
behaviour provides for interest and suspense. For example, in Thelma and
Louise, we don’t find out louise’s motives for running from the police until
very late in the action.
budget and naturalism
Write scenes with a view to budget limitations and act each ⊕ as you
write, reading aloud for pace and authenticity.
449
Chapter 55
⊘
⊘ Is The PrImarY way to transmit complex exposition and
backstory and is a vital part of characterisation. visuals and sound can only
do so much.
good ⊘ ultimately depends upon a good scenario. It is very hard
to make a clichéd or boring ⊕ jump off the page. generally, keep speeches
short. one or two sentences is the norm. Use long speeches only rarely.
one of the most frequent problems new writers have with ⊘ is
writing it in ‘real time’, as if they were recording what would happen in real
life. ⊘ is not conversation, it is an elaborate artifice resembling con-
versation that carries ⊗, ⊙ and character. even natural ⊘ writers
need training to learn the requisite economy. To understand this, look at
these lines from a first draft ⊕: ‘stop doing that. It drives me crazy. Can’t
you see how that sends me nuts?’ The good writer will delete the first two,
because the third implies the first two (which are functionally almost iden-
tical) but takes the relationship dynamically to a new and intriguing stage.
moreover, the pause permits the camera to come in close for a pause on the
actor’s expression. look out for sets of three lines like this in your work, by
the way. They often appear, and are just you workshopping the same thought
as you write. The third line will usually be the best.
short speeches and pauses can work magic. look at this weak, rambling
bit of ⊘.
MARY
I feel trapped. You won’t let
me do anything on my own. I’m
frightened of you.
FRED
I work my guts out for you. I’m
not taking any more of this, I’m
going to Bill’s.
449
450 The 21st-Century Screenplay
look what happens when you split it up.
MARY
I feel trapped.
FRED
I work my guts out for you.
MARY
You won’t let me do anything on
my own.
FRED
I’m not taking any more of this.
I’m going to Bill’s ...
MARY
I’m frightened of you.
Weirdly—because all I’ve done here is split it up—suddenly mary is impul-
sively making a shocking statement, creating a watershed moment in the
relationship, hence suspense and interest. The actor playing Fred would stop
in his tracks, and the ⊕ would take a new direction. short speeches and
pauses let the actors act.
Subtext
Character is defined by what it does not say as much as by what it does—sub-
text. ⊘ is as much about the thought progressions between the lines
as the lines themselves and is written to attain the screenwriter’s holy grail—
that silent close-up of the actor showing, simultaneously, myriad emotions.
But how exactly do you create subtext? Imagine that you are creating two
characters who don’t say what they feel (as in the ⊕ from Being John mal-
kovich, discussed on pp. 446–7). The trick is to work out the ⊟ of
thoughts going on in Character a’s mind in response to what Character B is
saying (and implying) and to the situation generally. next, instead of having
Character a speak their ⊟ of thoughts aloud, make them speak only
every third or fourth thought. The audience will fill in the gaps and the ⊕
will instantly become fast and suspenseful. For example, in the Being John
malkovich ⊕ we’ve been talking about, to shut up the noisy parrot lotte
takes it out of the room. We hear it shouting off screen, ‘help! she’s locking
me in a cage!’ after which lotte re-enters saying, ‘Isn’t that cute? I just taught
him that.’ Craig replies, ‘adorable. What time are they supposed to be here?’
⊘ 451
In the short space of time between lotte’s line and Craig’s ‘adorable’, Craig
has rapidly thought something like, ‘I could strangle that parrot’, ‘Why can’t
she see I hate these animals?’, ‘I won’t lose my temper but I want to put her
down not only because she’s so idiotic but also because she can’t see that I
hate them’, ‘I want her to realise that I’m putting her down, but she probably
won’t realise it.’ Between ‘adorable’ and ‘What time are they supposed to be
here,’ he has rapidly thought, ‘and on top of all this I have to put up with her
irritating friends. how they annoy me!’ If Craig spoke all of his thoughts
aloud the ⊕ would be boring but leaving out steps in his thought progres-
sion (and in lotte’s, when it’s her turn to speak), makes the ⊕ crackle with
energy and pushes the whole script suspensefully forward.
notice, by the way, how much more energised the ⊕ is by the fact that
Craig suppressed rather than expressed his thoughts. Paradoxically, scenes
in which a character is repressing anger or other strong emotions usually
have higher suspense levels than scenes in which characters actually let their
emotions go. revealingly, the speeches anyone remembers from fairytales are
always moments immediately before the violence, for example, ‘Who’s been
eating my porridge . . .?’, ‘oh grandmamma, what big hands you have . . .’,
‘mirror, mirror, on the wall . . .’ and ‘Fee, fie, foe, fum . . .’ For a brilliant analy-
sis of how subtext drives good ⊕ writing see robert mckee, Story (1999),
‘⊕ analysis’.
examples of flawed ⊘ writing
good ⊘ technique is easier to understand by looking at bad ⊘.
What follow are variations on two different scenes—‘going on holiday’ and
‘The break-up’—that each display a wide range of typical ⊘ problems,
exaggerated for ease of identification. For easier reading, the ⊘ col-
umn in the following examples of scripts is wider than it would normally be
in a real script.
‘gOing On HOliday’ (verSiOn 1)
Unnecessary
INT. LUCY’S BEDROOM - MORNING - PAN LUCY’S
ROOM - MS LUCY IS STANDING BY HER BED.
Unnecessary
Repetition
detail
LUCY is standing by her bed wearing a short
pink and white floral dress with a lace collar
and belt matched with white, lace-up shoes and
tan-coloured pantihose. She sighs, tips her
452 The 21st-Century Screenplay
head to one side, then, smiling warmly, picks
up a grey stuffed elephant, hugs it, kisses it
on its trunk, and puts it down again.
Redundant—has
LUCY
slowing effect
Clumsy (Happily)
exposition I am so happy! It is the first
day of holidays and Auntie Jenny
is arriving in five minutes to
take us to her holiday cottage!
Time consuming—
Lucy looks out of the window.
expensive and redundant
LUCY’S POV – THE STREET BELOW WITH ITS TREES.
A BLUE CAR PASSES.
Repetition—and unnecessary
because ⊘ should
BACK TO LUCY – SMILING.
indicate mood
ACROSS TO BELLA – SITTING ON HER BED WITH A
HAPPY LOOK. This is prose fiction
writing.
BELLA is sitting on her bed with a happy look.
She gets up, walks to one corner and swings
to face Lucy, a look of immense excitement
spreading across her freckled face.
Redundant
BELLA
(Excitedly, standing with her hands on
her hips)
The journey takes three hours
but the cottage is so beautiful!
Clumsy
I am so excited! But I do hope
exposition
Uncle Bill has fixed the motor on
the boat in case it breaks down
and the tide carries us out to
the island!
Redundant—‘real
LUCY time’ writing
(Bending to tie her shoelace)
I must do up my shoes!
⊘ 453
BELLA Redundant—‘real
time’ writing
(Bending to tie her shoelace)
Me too.
Redundant
LUCY
(Sighing with happiness, sinking onto
the bed)
I really love holidays. I love
Repetition—needs
to wake up in the morning and
tightening
think there is no school and
hear the waves in the distance
and know that I can be happy all
day.
Prose fiction
Lucy sighs to herself, remembering last year
when she was at the cottage and picked flowers
every morning. She hopes the grumpy neighbour
will have moved.
Redundant
BELLA
(Sighing, pulling a suitcase out from
under the bed, putting her books in it)
The action
I think I will pack my books
will show
in this suitcase. This lock is
this. There has
always so stiff. There we are!
been no time
‘Real time’
Open! Now, where shall I put to pack the
writing. People
this one? Oh yes. Right here! case.
talk like this
(finishing her packing) There! I
⊮ is bad
⊕ should
⊘. have finished my packing! Shall
end here.
we take the cases downstairs?
Redundant Nothing else
happens from
LUCY
now on.
(Grinning at her)
Yes, let’s take the cases
downstairs.
BELLA
All right.
454 The 21st-Century Screenplay
LUCY
(⊨ the door for her)
I’ll open the door for you. It
gets a bit stiff.
BELLA None of this
takes the ⊕
Thanks!
any further. Cut.
LUCY
That’s okay!
They go out of the room.
Unnecessary
CUT TO
Figure 55.1 ‘going on holiday’, version 1
COmmenTS On ‘gOing On HOliday’ (verSiOn 1)
This ⊕ contains too much ‘directing on paper’ in terms both of acting
and camera directions. These slow down the reader in the vital task of read-
ing the script for its playing speed, credibility and emotional impact. actors
and director must be given the freedom to do their job. note how repetitive
the piece is and how like prose fiction ⊚ the directions often become.
This is redundant. stage directions are not prose ⊚, they are notes on
a plan. The problems with this piece of screenwriting are:
•
The instructions as to what is seen out of the window must be
relevant to the ⊗ or cut.
•
The instruction CUT To at the end is redundant because a cut is
implied by the fact that this is the end of a ⊕.
•
The ⊘ frequently states what is self-evident: ‘I am excited.’
•
The ⊘ does not use common spoken contractions like ‘can’t’
and ‘I’ll’.
•
The exposition is very clumsy. When putting in exposition, try to get
it across in fragments and avoid letting characters repeat the same
piece of information unless it is a real springboard for delivering
more information.
•
The passages about doing up shoes and ⊨ the door are
repetitive and do not take the ⊕ further. If either action is a
set-up that will pay off later, they should be included but in a much
more subtle way.
⊘ 455
•
lucy thinking about picking flowers and the whereabouts of the
grumpy neighbour are not transmittable to the audience. If it is
important, it should be put into the ⊘.
•
nothing is happening while Bella packs her suitcase; moreover, there
is no indication that the writer is imagining the action or thinking
what is happening on screen while it is going on. The writer seems
to have forgotten that packing a suitcase will take valuable screen
time. If an action is specified in the script, enough time should be
allowed for it to occur, and other action should occur as it is going
on. If the action seems to be slowing the ⊕ down, either get rid of
it or imbue it with a point that will move along character. seriously
question its use in the film as a whole.
•
Both characters have exactly the same speech mannerisms, and the
speech mannerisms sound robotic rather than realistic. The ⊘
is not credible as that of young people.
•
The ⊕ is giving us very little in terms of information about either
⊗ or character.
•
often the ⊘ and action are dropping into ‘real time’
⊘—that is, what people would say or do in the same situation
in real life. This simply slows the ⊕ down.
•
The ⊕ is repetitive and boring because there is no real
characterisation and no real ⊗ movement after the first few
speeches. It is not telling us anything about these girls after these
speeches. It could be cut back massively.
The task here is to seed the ⊗ while subtly transmitting as much character
material as possible.
⊗ POinTS THaT COUld be revealed Here are:
•
more about last year and what the girls expect
•
relevant detail about the uncle, aunt and cottage
•
more about the geography of the area they are going to have their
adventure in
•
details about their ability to cope with the adventure
CHaraCTeriSaTiOn POinTS THaT THiS ⊕ COUld exPlOre are:
•
whether the girls are related or just friends
•
whether they generally get on well
•
what social class they belong to
456 The 21st-Century Screenplay
•
where they live
•
how old they are
•
their possessions (which reveal character)
•
how tidy/untidy they are
•
whether they are timid, brave, poetical etc.
‘gOing On HOliday’ (verSiOn 2)
This is the start of a better example of the ⊕.
INT. LUCY’S ROOM
CUT TO
Map of coastline, finger tracing the coast.
Rock music blasts out.
Use sound to
Combine LUCY add information.
⊗ with
(V.O.)
characterisation
See, we could take the boat out
plus interesting
of the inlet here ...
visual.
Pull back to show LUCY scanning a map spread
out on the bed and Bella, surrounded by heaps
of unpacked clothes, wrestling with a suitcase
clasp. It’s the room of a wealthy ⊦-class
teenage girl.
Use visual to
Establish both BELLA
establish characters
characters. Lucy, will you hurry up!
through possessions.
Low-level LUCY
⊖ adds ... and this time I am checking
Get info across via
interest the boat! a character point.
and makes
Seeds info about Bill’s
characterisation BELLA
incompetence which
easier because They’re coming in five minutes! we can play up on
characters can
later.
describe other
characters to
Info transmitted
audience under
through character
the guise of
point and ⊖.
irritation.
⊘ 457
LUCY
Remember picking all those
Info through flowers last year!
character point—
her happiness BELLA
Use teenage
about going to (Scathingly)
sarcasm to add
the cottage is Remember that weirdo from next
⊗ point and
implied in the
door last year! character point.
remark.
Figure 55.2 ‘going on holiday’, version 2
COmmenTS On ‘gOing On HOliday’ (verSiOn 2)
Information is being transmitted via ⊘, visuals and sound, often
simultaneously, and the lack of redundant ⊘ means the pace is much
faster. notice how low-level ⊖ is used to transmit backstory, character
and relationships. note how Bill’s incompetence is seeded so that it can be
developed later on.
‘THe break-UP’ (verSiOn 1)
The task here is to write a ⊕ about marie confronting her husband, Peter,
in his office about his infidelity with a colleague, stephanie. Peter confesses,
but is torn between marie and stephanie. marie leaves, saying that she and
the children will be staying at a friend’s. left alone, Peter wonders how he will
tell his beloved children.
INT. PETER’S OFFICE - NIGHT
PETER is on his own. MARIE enters.
Repetition. Each
of these three
PETER
statements is really
Marie! What are you doing here!
the same.
I wasn’t expecting to see you!
I’m really surprised!
Clumsy. Use ‘I’ve’.
MARIE
Clumsy
I have just had a telephone exposition
call from Stella. She rang from
the tennis club to tell me that
you had been seen kissing that
tall dark girl from the fifth
458 The 21st-Century Screenplay
floor, Stephanie. I feel deeply
Repetition.
betrayed. I feel shattered and
The last two
alone. How could you do this to
sentences
me?
are the same
statement in
PETER
essence.
I meant to tell you but I was
feeling a mixture of guilt and
Clumsy.
Emotions regret that our marriage was
too overtly over. Now I feel good that at
expressed. least it has come out into the
open.
MARIE Redundant ⊖.
How can you be so cold! ‘‘Tennis game’
argument battled back
PETER and forth.
I’m not cold!
MARIE
You are cold!
Tighten—
PETER
too overt
I am not cold! I am feeling so
confused. Part of me still wants
our marriage to work. Another
part of me feels that I want to
spend the rest of my life with
Stephanie.
MARIE
When are you going to tell the
children?
Stiff PETER
I don’t know. Why are you asking
me all these questions? I didn’t
choose for this happen. I am so
upset and confused.
Clumsy
⊘ 459
Too overt MARIE
I am so shattered that I am
going to take the children and
Poor
delivery go to stay with Sally for the
of info. No next few days.
emotion. Flat
PETER
All right. I’ll ring you. We
need to talk.
MARIE
Yes, we do need to talk.
Goodbye, Peter.
Redundant
PETER
Goodbye, Marie.
Marie exits. Peter is left alone.
CUT TO PETER.
Why the ⊞-over?
PETER
Clumsy.
(V.O.)
This is terrible! How am I ever
going to tell the children!
Figure 55.3 ‘The break-up’, version 1
COmmenTS On ‘THe break-UP’ (verSiOn 1)
generally, this version is very poor because the characters are expressing too
many of their feelings in words; moreover, they are saying things that are
obvious (for example, ‘I am so upset and confused’). The ‘thoughts between
the sentences’ are not being considered at all. specific problems are:
•
The writer has missed the opportunity to characterise Peter when he
is on his own.
•
The writer has been so concerned to get across information that
characterisation has been forgotten.
•
The tennis game of ‘You’re cold’, ‘no, I’m not’, ‘Yes, you are’ is
redundant, and thus reduces the ⊕’s impact.
•
The actor is not being given enough room to act. sentiments like
the following could almost be done through body language alone:
‘I am not cold! I am feeling so confused. Part of me still wants our
460 The 21st-Century Screenplay
marriage to work. another part of me feels that I want to spend the
rest of my life with stephanie.’
•
By setting the ⊕ at night, the writer has missed the chance to
have other people in the office who could raise the stress level by
overhearing or interrupting. even if the budget for this ⊕ does
not allow for other characters to appear, never miss the chance to
imply they are there, if it helps the drama.
•
The use of ⊞-over at the end is poor. Peter should either express
himself through direct words or gestures.
‘THe break-UP’ (verSiOn 2)
INT. PETER’S OFFICE - DAY
PETER is on his phone.
PETER
Yes ... mmm ... mmm ... yes ...
MARIE throws opens the door.
PETER
Marie! (To phone) I’ll call you
back ...
MARIE
Melodramatic
Oh, don’t hang up on my account!
I suppose that was her, was it?
Little Miss Stephanie from the
fifth floor?
PETER
Cliché I ... I ... don’t know what you
mean.
MARIE
Melodramatic
Stella, Peter. She told me. She Weak
rang me up and told me that you direction—leave
were having an affair! actions to
director and
actor.
Peter gets up, walks about distractedly.
⊘ 461
MARIE
Melodramatic
Well? Are you going to tell me
it’s not true?
PETER
Marie ... I love you and the
children ...
Cliché.
Melodramatic. MARIE
Ha!
PETER
Too overt
I do! I just ... confused. Part
of me wants the marriage to
work. Another part wants to be
with Stephanie for the rest of
my life.
MARIE
You creep.
PETER
Don’t call me that! Redundant
⊖. Batting
MARIE argument back
Aren’t you a creep? and forth.
PETER
No, I am not a creep. I’m a
human being with needs and
feelings! Something you seem to Melodrama
forget, Marie!
Cliché
Marie slaps him around the face.
Melodramatic, PETER
implausible I didn’t deserve that, Marie.
response
MARIE
When are you going to tell the
children? Or should that be ‘Are
you going to tell the children’?
462 The 21st-Century Screenplay
PETER
I’ll tell them. I just need a Cliché
little time.
MARIE
I’m taking them with me to
Sally’s. We’ll stay there.
You’ll hear from my lawyers in
the morning.
Peter steps forward to touch her.
PETER
Cliché
Marie, I ...
MARIE
Don’t touch me!
PETER
But Marie, you can’t ...
MARIE
The drink’s a
(interrupting)
cliché.
Can’t what, Peter? Cliché
She stares at him for a moment, then exits. He
sinks, shattered, into his chair. Music as he
catches sight of the photo on his desk of his
kids and Marie. He pours himself a drink. He
throws the glass to the ground, smashing it.
Cliché
Figure 55.4 ‘The break-up’, version 2
COmmenTS On ‘THe break-UP’ (verSiOn 2)
This version incorporates all of the action clichés of melodrama: face slap-
ping, pouring a drink, glass-breaking and photo-surveying (staring into a
mirror is another cliché). The characters are very verbal and very sure of
themselves, and tend to say what everybody wishes they could think of to say
in such conversations. They talk in clichés and platitudes (‘I . . . I . . . don’t
know what you mean’, ‘I didn’t deserve that, marie’, ‘You’ll hear from my
lawyers in the morning’) and there is little subtext or unscripted thought
⊘ 463
progression between the lines. While certain kinds of serial dramas operate
on the overt and honest expression of emotions, this version of ⊕ 2 is
not acceptable even within such conventions. as well as wall-to-wall clichés,
the ⊕ shows a lot of redundant material. The ⊨ phone conversa-
tion is redundant because it tells us nothing about the character or his state
of mind. The tennis game of redundant ⊖ over the ‘creep’ accusation
is also poor.
‘THe break-UP’ (verSiOn 3)
INT. PETER’S OFFICE - DAY
PETER is on the phone. He’s looking through
papers as he speaks. He’s calm, in control.
PETER
No, I need delivery by the fifth
or not at all ... I ... (He sees
Marie approaching) I’m sorry,
what? Look, can I get back to
you? Thanks, bye.
He hangs up, gears himself to look normal.
MARIE enters.
PETER
Hi!
She just stares at him. Peter gets up and
closes the door. Marie realises why, and gives
a contemptuous snort. Peter comes back behind
his desk. Tense pause.
MARIE
Stella rang this morning.
Pause.
PETER
I was going to tell you.
464 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Marie sighs - ‘the hell you were’. Pause.
MARIE
I’m taking the children to
Sally’s ...
PETER
(Interrupting, stressed)
Oh, don’t do that!
The phone has started to ring.
MARIE
Cut? (Cutting in)
When are you going to tell them?
Are you going to tell them?
⊜.
PETER
It’s not as simple as that.
MARIE
I think it’s bloody simple!
PETER
Oh, shit. (Snatching up the
phone) Masters? (He’s watching
her every movement, ⊮’s his
boss.) Oh, Mr Carter ... Yes ...
(Marie waits a moment then gets
up to go.) Look, I’m extremely
sorry, sir, can I call you
back? (The boss is clearly not
pleased.) Thank you, sir.
He hangs up and grabs at Marie as she gets to
the door.
PETER
Marie ...
⊘ 465
MARIE
Go away!
PETER
No, we need to talk.
MARIE
Cut?
(Fighting tears)
Go away!
PETER
Please ...
MARIE
Cut?
Well talk! (⊜) Talk then!
Which of us do you want?
She stares at him, anguished. Backstory
about the
PETER relationship
concealed
You always do this! You make
within
everything black and white ...
recrimination
He can’t keep it up. He looks away. Her face
flashes anguish then pride – and she’s gone.
Left alone, Peter knows he’s just lost the
marriage and his kids.
Figure 55.5 ‘The break-up’, version 3
COmmenTS On ‘THe break-UP’ (verSiOn 3)
The ⊕ is better because there is more characterisation, subtext and
unspoken thought progression for the actors to utilise. generally, the ⊕
seems more rooted in reality. Peter seems to be existing in a real office with
its interruptions and gossip-minded colleagues. The phone call at the begin-
ning has ⊘ that tells us something about Peter’s job and the way
he does it. moreover, it permits him to be seen reacting to marie’s arrival.
There is also the opportunity, implied but not specified in the ⊨, that
marie’s progression through the office towards Peter’s room could be seen
on screen.
The ⊕’s drama and suspense levels (jeopardy) are lifted because marie
466 The 21st-Century Screenplay
is actually seen to interrupt Peter’s work and Peter is shown being aware
that they could be overheard. The mental jumps and matters left unsaid add
suspense to the ⊕ because we are not sure what is coming next. The inter-
rupting phone call adds tension through putting Peter on the spot—his job
and his marriage are both demanding his attention. The camera would be
moving between both characters at this stage, monitoring their unspoken
interaction.
at the end, Peter’s inability to say anything is more dramatic than a weak
line and gives marie a chance to act her grief and hurt pride. his change
of tack at the end is credible and characterising. It also sneaks in backstory
about how he thinks she behaved during their relationship. marie’s outburst
at the end is a bit soapy but acceptable because she has been so restrained
earlier.
The ⊕ could be further cut back if required. other possible versions
might include an interruption from another office member, or other such
tension-builders. many writers would reduce the number of acting direc-
tions, feeling that they inhibit actors. of course a real ⊕ in a real film
would present the writer with opportunities to seed later events or pay off
material set up earlier. There would also be the possibility to develop char-
acter in a more precise and focused way. The bad language would have to be
removed if this ⊕ were to be screening as a family film.
467
Chapter 56
Treatment/outline writing and the
script as an instruction manual
as Well as a piece of drama, a script in all its forms (including treatment,
outline, ⊜ sheet and ⊕ breakdown) is a technical instruction manual
for everyone involved in the process of creating the film. This means it has
to be written and laid out according to industry conventions. The scripts in
the previous chapters have been laid out differently for ease of reading in a
book format.
acting and camera directions
Unconventional acting and camera directions should not matter, but they do.
script layout guides with full glossaries of camera terms are available from
organisations such as the Writers’ guild in your country. limits of space pre-
vent their inclusion here.
Writing well for the camera means transmitting information about what is
appearing on screen in an economical, vivid but unobtrusive way. Putting in
a lot of acting and camera directions is called ‘directing on paper’ and actors
and directors hate it, partly because it pre-empts their input, partly because
it interrupts the flow of the script, making it impossible to read for flow and
running time. The script should take the same time to read as it takes to play
on the screen and should play in the mind’s eye in the same order as it would
on screen. Don’t make readers rewind. never put any information in direc-
tions that is obvious from the action or ⊘.
Below is an excellent example of good writing for the camera. It is written
by Cliff green (Picnic at Hanging Rock, Boy Soldiers) and is an extract from
an episode of the aBC television drama serial Something in the Air. notice
the economy, wit and minimal formal camera directions used to transmit a
large amount of visual information, including detailed actions and charac-
ters’ emotions. From this tiny ⊕ we learn a great deal, not only about each
character, but about the relationship.
467
468 The 21st-Century Screenplay
INT. MERINDA/BEDROOM - DAY 1
DOUG, JULIA
We see, in BIG CU, a pair of tweezers pulling
an individual hair from a large nose.
WIDEN to see DOUG sitting on a chair and
JULIA plucking nasal hairs with as much loving
compassion as the circumstances allow.
Suddenly one really hurts.
DOUG
Ow!
He pulls back.
JULIA
They’ll be doing close-ups. They
always do close-ups.
DOUG
They can come as close as they
like.
His face cupped in her hands. Julia on guard
for signs of any other facial debris.
Figure 56.1 extract from ‘getting to know you’, episode 5, Something in the air ©
1999 beyond Simpson le mesurier Productions and abC Tv.
make sure directions don’t lead people off track
While you must not over-describe, don’t under-describe either. Be sure your
tight acting directions properly transmit ⊗. many writers, particularly writer–
directors, will write something like ‘a muscle in her cheek twitches’ and assume
that the reader will recognise this as the crucial moment in which the woman
decides to leave her boyfriend and go to Peru. It might, when shot. on the page,
it can pass completely unnoticed, particularly if you are using subtext, so that
people are not saying what they really mean. To transmit what you mean, state
the emotion or decision, not how it should be acted. so, say ‘Joe’s stunned’. This
also permits the actor freedom, because while some actors would act a stunned
character via body movements and changing facial expressions, others might
show it through, for example, stillness or a slight tremor.
Treatment/outline writing and the script as an instruction manual 469
Treatments and outlines
The precise meaning of treatments and outlines varies a little between film
cultures. Basically, they are prose summaries of a proposed film or other
piece of screen drama. They are often selling documents, in which case their
purpose is to provide potential investors of all kinds with a text that will let
their mind’s eye see the proposed film or telemovie as if they were sitting in
a cinema watching it happen on screen. a treatment for a full-length feature
film or telemovie is normally about 35 pages long, although when used in
hollywood as a pitch it may be considerably shorter. outlines are shorter and
more succinct. of course, shorter films require shorter treatments. Treat-
ments and outlines are always written in the present tense and their closest
affinity, stylistically and in function, is with stage directions.
Treatments and outlines are notoriously difficult to write because at the
same time as being meticulously precise and economical, unless they are
created just for the writer’s own use or for in-house distribution only, they
must be ‘a good read’—a piece of prose that jumps off the page. Treatments
and outlines must depict simply, vividly and without any ambiguity, not only
what the camera is seeing but also the order in which it sees it, so that no
mental ‘replays’ have to be done. In addition, the writer must be completely
invisible because nothing, including an awareness of the narrator’s sensibil-
ity, however unique or acute, must distract readers from the film or telemovie
screening in their heads. as we’ve seen, distractions mean the reader cannot
maintain a proper sense of the planned film’s pace or duration. With every
distraction, the film running in the reader’s head risks losing its impact, sus-
pense and emotional build.
a good spine for a treatment or outline is the advanced ⊚ sentence
(see ⊧ strategy 6, p. 66) because this forces you to create and
describe a building story—rather than rambling on, and, as often happens,
describing the ⊨ ten minutes in enthusiastic detail then summaris-
ing the remaining ninety in a couple of vague paragraphs. of course, like all
other pieces of scriptwriting, treatments and outlines are a personal thing.
some writers will include snippets of ⊘. others will open the treat-
ment with a striking and detailed description of the script’s first scenes, so
as to excite and capture the reader. others will be chatty, or in rare instances
where the writer feels there may be mileage in it, openly idiosyncratic in
description (although idiosyncrasy of this sort is perhaps best avoided by
new writers). Despite these differences, all treatments obey the same general
rules as scripts about making sure readers can view the film in their heads
undistracted.
470 The 21st-Century Screenplay
linda seger has very useful material on writing treatments and out-
lines in making a Good Script Great (3rd edition), Chapter 1, ‘gathering
Ideas’.
what distracts readers from the film in their
heads?
The most common distractions are: repetition, redundant detail, out-of-
⊟ description and intrusive ⊚ ⊞. Distractions can be
minimised by working out in advance what information the reader has to be
given to be able to visualise and understand the full import of each ⊟.
You need to work out the following.
•
What is the ⊟ about?
•
What happens in this ⊟?
•
What information is it vital that the reader receives?
The reader needs to know precisely and economically what is happening on
the screen in the order it happens.
emotional state of the characters
It may or may not be necessary to describe the characters’ emotional state.
This is something that must be treated with caution. If the ⊟ is
showing something not emotionally charged, then there is usually no
need to describe emotions. again, if it is obvious what the characters are
feeling from their actions or from what has just happened, there is usually
no need.
new details that will be important later
If a detail that will be important later in the drama occurs in this ⊕, make
sure it is neither submerged nor too heavily emphasised. Be aware that read-
ers will assume details are significant. If the treatment or script mentions
that the camera lingers on something, particularly at the start of the film, the
reader will assume they are being given a clue. If, as often writer–directors
do, you insert a clever shot like CU—The lIghT CaTChIng The sole
oF hIs shoe as he Falls, realise that the reader may well assume the
shoe is a vital clue and be waiting for a payoff.
Position: where in the film does the ⊟
occur?
If the ⊟ is close to the end of the film, we will know the characters well
and therefore not be in need of material descriptive of character. Conversely,
Treatment/outline writing and the script as an instruction manual 471
if the ⊟ happens early in the film, character details (gender, age,
response) might well need to be spelt out.
mood
Capturing the mood of what is to be seen on the screen is vital. The treatment
must do justice to the material. The reader must be engaged on an emotional
level. If the ⊟ is an exciting chase, the description should be exciting
to read. If the ⊟ shows a family after a death, the writing should cap-
ture the mood of grief. similarly, comic scenes need to be described so as to
show the reader how they will be funny.
exercise in treatment technique
here is a ⊟ that needs to be turned into part of a treatment. here is
what the ⊟ is about.
aCTiOn
⊛, Joe, snatching up old harry’s shotgun and running from his
hotel through pouring rain to make sure that his girlfriend, Jenny, has not
been attacked by a serial killer.
emOTiOnal STaTe OF THe CHaraCTer
Joe is distraught and feeling guilty that he didn’t heed Jenny’s warnings.
new deTailS in THe ⊟ THaT will be
imPOrTanT laTer
none.
POSiTiOn
This is a ⊟ late in the action, when we know Joe well. It is also just
before the big ⊝, in which Joe and Jenny join forces against the serial
killer.
mOOd
excitement, suspense.
Poor treatment writing
here is the ⊟ poorly written, with comments.
472 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Never mention the camera by name and try to
make any vital shots part of the text. This direction
is redundant, telling us nothing more than the
obvious. If you want to specify exactly what we are Weak word,
seeing, you can say ‘stay with JOE’ or, for close-ups, inadequate.
constructions like ‘JOE, panting and desperate, his
face splattered with mud . . .’ etc. Be sparing with We know it’s
this sort of writing. Do not ‘direct on paper’. raining. Use
Repetition. We only the most
Out-of-⊟ description. know he has descriptive word,
We already have a mental just run out. and use it once.
picture of him running out of
the hotel—without a shotgun. Redundant
detail. We
The camera shows JOE hurrying out of the don’t need to
hotel and being annoyed to find it raining. know about
The rain is slashing down. It’s pouring. the leaves
unless
Joe runs out of the hotel grounds, carrying
they are
Harry’s shotgun, which he picked up in the
important
hotel lobby. He dashes out along the street,
to the
which is carpeted with rain-sodden leaves in ⊗.
every colour from yellow through red to dark
brown, all fallen from the grove of plane
trees planted by Old Harry sixty years ago to
overhang the road. The gutters are running.
Trees, dark sentinels of the night, are
dripping. Cursing the rain, Joe jogs on down
the black, glimmering road. Cars fly past,
splashing him. His foot goes into a puddle
and he turns his ankle. A car almost runs him
over. He arrives at Jenny’s house and runs
through the rain up the drive and to the front
door.
Intrusive ⊚ ⊞. This is While some of this detail might
distracting, adding nothing to what be powerful, too much could be
we are visualising. Its only purpose distracting, becoming a red herring
is to draw attention to the way the because the emphasis placed on it
writer sees the world. leads us to feel it must be important.
It is too late in the script for exposition.
If the planting date of the trees is
important it should have been set up
earlier. If the trees and Harry are not of
relevance here, cut, or risk distracting the
reader and losing pace.
Figure 56.2 Poor treatment writing
Treatment/outline writing and the script as an instruction manual 473
better treatment writing alternative versions
—
here are some alternative versions that use much better treatment writing
technique.
very TigHT
JOE snatches up OLD HARRY’s shotgun. He runs
frantically out into the slashing rain and up
the road to JENNY’s.
While extremely tight, this might be all that is needed if this is merely a link
to the big ⊝ and speed is of the essence. This version contains all the
required elements. It maintains the mood of excitement and fear. It is col-
loquial rather than formal and literary. It is appropriate for its position in the
script. It shows action in proper ⊟. It shows the character’s emotional
state. It contains no distractions. note that its shortness suggests a short
⊟. avoid depicting a short ⊟ at great length, because lengthy
description will make the reader imagine a lengthy ⊟.
SOme deTail
JOE snatches up OLD HARRY’s shotgun. He runs
frantically out into the slashing rain and
up the road towards JENNY’s house. He’s to
blame for this, and he knows it. Cars fly past,
hooting and splashing him. One narrowly misses
him, and he slips, plunging down into a rut in
the road. His ankle is twisted badly. He’s in
agony, but he struggles to his feet and forces
himself on. He reaches JENNY’s house.
This version addresses all the necessary points, but adds more detail on the
specifics of the action and Joe’s emotional state. Close-ups of Joe’s face have
been implied through saying that we see him in agony and that he feels guilty.
This version gives both the director and actor more to work with without
telling them how to do their job or cluttering up the page with distracting
camera or acting directions. notice that the actor and director are told Joe’s
emotional state without being given specific—and distracting—instructions
as to how these emotions are to be shown; for example, ‘Joe’s mouth quivers,
his knees buckle, he sobs, raising his eyes heavenwards . . .’
474 The 21st-Century Screenplay
note also that this version suggests to the reader that the ⊟ takes
longer than the first version, and that Joe’s frantic run will be used in the
film to raise suspense. But the ⊟ still feels like a link to the next main
action point, namely, encountering the serial killer.
very deTailed, making THe ⊟ very
SigniFiCanT in jOe’S emOTiOnal mOvemenT
JOE snatches up OLD HARRY’s shotgun. He runs
frantically out into the slashing rain and
up the road towards JENNY’s house. He’s to
blame for this, and he knows it. Cars fly past,
hooting and splashing him. One narrowly misses
him, and he slips, plunging down into a rut in
the road. His ankle is twisted badly. He’s in
agony, but he struggles to his feet and forces
himself on. The road seems endless. He’s eaten
up with despair. He’s realising how much JENNY
means to him and how likely it is that he will
be too late. He staggers on. JENNY’s house
comes into sight. He wills himself toward it.
Near collapse, he staggers up the drive.
here, the added detail about action and emotional state suggest a longer
⊟ and one which is crucial to Joe’s emotional ⊧. as it is
now written, the run to Jenny’s house shows Joe realising, with pain, that he
loves Jenny and that he might have lost her. The writing makes us imagine
more close-ups because the film needs to display Joe’s increasing distress. We
can even imagine music.
Points to remember
The longer and more detailed the description of a ⊟, the longer read-
ers will expect it to play, and the more significance they will attribute to it. It
can be tricky to describe fast, action-packed scenes briefly.
Do not accord all sequences the same amount of space. go for variety
based on the running time of the ⊟. Try always to get the ‘feel’ of the
film—funny, poignant, grim etc. It is easy for treatments to become too dry.
remember, the treatment is a selling tool. It must be ‘a good read’. Think
always of the film running in the reader’s head. avoid distractions in terms
Treatment/outline writing and the script as an instruction manual 475
of redundant detail, intrusive ⊚ ⊞, repetition and out-of-⊟
description of action requiring a mental ‘replay’.
⊕ breakdowns, ⊜ sheets, outlines and
stage directions
Treatments and ⊕ breakdowns must, like stage directions make the action
screen vividly and without interruption in the reader’s mind. so everything
above about distractions in treatments is equally applicable.
like treatments, ⊕ breakdowns and stage directions are also pieces
of technical writing which must give all film personnel the information they
need to do their job. Your best training here is to read as many scripts as pos-
sible to see standard industry practice.
index
acting directions 467–8 as loaded gun 88
action line 72–7 cliché 87
see also three-act structure, plotting action different kinds described 86–90
line in complex flashback 287–300
action thriller 77, 141, 386, 439 non-human 89
actors prude turned action hero 88
actor improvisation 200–1 see also mentor ⊣ (complex
actors’ troupe story see multiple ⊛ ⊚); mentor ⊣
⊚ (conventional ⊚)
actor–writers 8, 69, 200–1, 436 anticlimax 113–4
big cast 168, 200–1, 332 Any Given Sunday 211
commercial issues 21, 130, 135–7, 432 aristotle
star need not be ⊛ 81, 85, 422–5 admired non-linearity 47
writing well for 446–7, 449–69 non-linearity predates aristotle 168–9
adaptation, problems and strategies Poetics 47, 168
changing structure 155–8 in medias res 168–9
checklist for planning 157–8 arriaga, guillermo 31–2, 45, 169, 191, 197,
fact 156–7, 413, 438 262, 364, 366, 370, 376–7, 379, 381, 385,
fiction 155–6, 342, 434 387, 395, 404, 446
life stories 157 see also flashforward; fractured tandem
mentor ⊣ 156–8 ⊚; consecutive stories ⊚
producers swept away 35 As It Is in Heaven 173–4, 179, 211, 213, 215, 217
redundant ⊞-over 144 Atonement 47, 171, 176, 180, 328–30, 342–4
weak ⊛ 156–8 case study and template 346
see also Atonement; Insider; Cold mountain; autobiography
Gods and monsters; autobiography; best forms for 157
biography flashback 176, 255, 272, 301–3, 305–7,
Advanced Screenwriting 40 see also seger, linda 309–10, 315–21
African Queen as structural model 51, 73, 75, see also biography; life stories; ⊞-over
77, 88–9, 95, 137–9, 160, 163, 189, 306–7,
348, 385, 416 Babe, Babe in the City 38
After the Wedding 174, 211 Babel 167, 176, 180, 184, 191, 376, 379–81,
All About my mother 178, 212 383–4, 397–8, 407
allen, Woody 301–2 see also Annie Hall case study and template 401–5
Amadeus 81, 179, 252, 280, 282, 304, 311, 438 Babette’s Feast 255–6
American Beauty 47, 167, 172, 174, 177, 179, background story see three-act structure,
207, 212–6, 220, 223, 225, 227, 231–3, 240, relationship line
242–5, 428, 445 Bad Education 368–9, 440–1
American Splendor 38 Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress 81
Amores Perros case study and template 364–70 band of heroes see multiple ⊛
Amores Perros 32, 167, 197, 313, 328–30, 332, ⊚
338, 346–7, 364–70, 376–7, 387, 404 band of performers see multiple ⊛
Anaconda 59 ⊚
And When Did You Last See Your Father? 175, Band’s Visit 178
180, 254, 256 Battleship Potemkin 85
Annie Hall 169, 175, 180, 252, 254–5, 258 ⊜ sheet 62
⊣ see also outline
index 477
beats characters in search of a ⊗
interweaving and condensing 74–6, 133–7, general 95, 98, 163, 173, 188, 195, 208–9,
197–200, 218–20, 231–3 223–4, 244, 288
described 50 group stories 422–7
number needed for film 50 see also character driven
21 Grams, interesting use of 390–3 Charlotte’s Web 38
see also index cards; strands, story Chekhov 15, 16, 46
Beautiful mind, A 38 Chicken Run 178, 207, 210, 212, 214–5
Being John malkovich 28, 64–5, 70, 88, 446–7, Children of Heaven 47, 98, 102, 109
450–1 Chocolat 213
Big Chill 78, 173–4, 178, 207, 209, 211, 214–6, Cinderella
226–7, 237, 428, 432–3, 445 Cinderella sports team 178, 211
biography genre 10, 15
best forms for 157 structure of 57–8, 112, 197
double biography 358 template (conventional ⊚) 27–8, 36
problems 434–6 template (flashback) 254, 256–7, 259, 266,
see also autobiography; life stories 269, 289, 293–7, 303, 311
Blade Runner 117 truncation 111–12, 197
Bootmen 216, 423–5, 427 Cinema Paradiso 252, 257, 259, 265, 314
Bovell, andrew 189 Circle, The 176, 180, 328–9, 331, 334–5, 352,
Boy Soldiers 467 357–8
Brassed Off 178, 211 Citizen Kane 46–7, 83, 157, 167, 171, 175, 179,
Break of Day 177 252, 257, 261, 269, 271–2, 274–6, 278–80, 282,
Brick 259, 262 284–90, 292–4, 297, 299–300, 303, 315, 438
Bridges of madison County 179, 271–2, 278, Shine, Slumdog millionaire, Citizen Kane
280 and The Usual Suspects compared
Brokeback mountain 162, 174, 179, 246–9, 434 271–300
buddy films 79–80 City of God 157, 168, 176, 180, 272, 320,
see also double journeys ⊚ 328–30, 332, 335, 347–8, 360, 361, 364, 381,
budget 12, 17–26, 129–30, 147, 164, 322, 448 412
Burn after Reading 177, 179, 212, 215, 227 case study and template 357–61
Butterfly Effect, The 47, 176, 329, 332, 335, 337, City of Hope 173–4, 177, 182–3, 186, 188–9,
340–1, 347, 362–4, 381 197, 198, 202–6, 317
case study and template 363–4 City Slickers 178, 211
Buttoners 328, 330–2, 335, 347–8, 361 classmates see multiple ⊛ ⊚
clichés
Caché (Hidden) 155 expecting, checking for, averting 25, 143,
Cadillac man 213 163
Calendar Girls 178, 211 how they happen 3–9, 163, 200
camera, writing for 467–75 in actor improvisation workshops 200
Caramel 173–4, 177, 182, 183, 185, 189–90 ‘literary device’ 145–6
Castle, The 225 see also crisis in script ⊧
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof 211, 214 Cliff green 467
catalyst see three-act structure act 1 d) ⊝ see three-act structure act 3 b) ⊝
disturbance Clockwise 159–60
Catch 22 175, 254, 267, 267–70 club story see multiple ⊛ ⊚
character driven 29, 77, 98, 208 Clubland 81, 162, 213
characterisation Cocoon 178, 212
archetypes 28, 94, 105, 125, 230 Coffee and Cigarettes 328, 333
character driven 29, 77, 98, 208 Cold mountain 160–1, 247, 433–4
clichés 6–9, 36, 77, 87–8, 94, 145–6, 151, 230 comedy
described 91–8 and satire 159
tools to help 91–4 black comedy 331, 345, 348, 350–1
see also characters in search of a ⊗; consecutive stories films 331
inner/outer story; hero’s Journey, The; Friends 135–7
⊛ heist 74–5, 179, 213, 227, 240
478 The 21st-Century Screenplay
comedy (Cont.) entry into a new world 362
inventing group comedy 224–6 general problems 328–9
romantic comedy 12, 18–21, 37–8, 88, Go! 344–6
162–3, 197 as a template 346
Seinfeld 134 Joy Luck Club, The 348–51
silly plus real is funny 23 as a template 351
Tv comedy, plotting exercises 134–7 keeping weak ⊛ central 358–60
comic heist see Burn After Reading; comedy; making characters easy to indentify 348–50
multiple ⊛ ⊚ memento 360–1
coming of age films non-linearity creates energy, suspense 347
City of God 357–8 Odyssey to fix Tv mini-series and journey
group quests 162, 177–9, 208–36 films 75, 370
mentor antagonists 162 Odyssey 370–5
multiple ⊛ films 179, 217, 235–6 Pulp Fiction 351–7
original world 162 as a template 352, 357
romantic comedy 163 Rashomon 337–40
28 Days 424 consequences see consecutive stories ⊚;
Commitments, The 178, 211 fractured tandem ⊚
community with problem see multiple Constant Gardener, The 252, 261–2, 265, 313–15
⊛ ⊚ as template 314
composite films see tandem ⊚ form; Cosi 178, 211
consecutive stories ⊚ Counterfeiters 178, 213
⊖ Crash 32, 47, 167, 176, 180, 183, 186, 376–84,
conventional ⊚ 57, 72, 82, 86, 88, 396, 406
90, 94, 104, 106, 139 creativity 3–30
double journeys 246–51 see also ideas; crisis in script ⊧;
flashback 252, 290–2, 297–9, 309–10, 319 clichés
flawed films 422–3, 425, 432–3, 430–7 Crimes and misdemeanors 114, 174, 182,
in group stories 215–6, 221, 223, 229–30, 185–7, 197, 255, 317
236–41, 243 crisis (structural component)
in ⊕ writing 252–3, 447–8, 457–66 in extended smiley/Thompson plan 60
productive and redundant 193, 432–33, mercutio character 84–6, 90, 145
435–6, 447–8 ⊚ as chain of crises 52
consecutive stories ⊚, all forms situation comedy 135
fractured frame/portmanteau 176, 180, triggering crisis (flashback) 273–4, 276–7,
332 280–1
overview 157, 171, 175–6, 180, 212–3, see also turning points
328–9 crisis in script ⊧
type 1: stories walking into the picture 334–6 brainstorming in 12–13
type 2: different perspectives 337–41 creativity under stress 3–30
type 3: different consequences 342–6 controlling panic 11–13, 147–8
type 4: ‘portmanteau’(fractured frame) define, brainstorm, choose 11
347–75 ⊧ strategy 1, to avert 18
consecutive stories ⊚, plotting drowning in ideas 13–14
achieving connection 330–1 effects of panic 143
Amores Perros 364–9 good ideas fast from models 15–30
as a template 368–9 in planning 48
anthology films 333 permission to panic 147
Atonement 342–4 re-writing 146–51
as a template 346 writing under pressure 151–4
Butterfly Effect, The 362–4 see also clichés; heat; spark, the; ⊗,
as a template 363–4 common problems
Buttoners 361 Crocodile Dundee 415
City of God 357–61 Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon 178, 207, 210,
as a template 361 215, 255, 447
double biography 358 Crying Game, The 85, 108, 145
index 479
Crystal, Billy 8, 69, 435 ensemble films
see also mr Saturday Night described 171, 172–3
Curious Case of Benjamin Button, The 167, two main types 172–3
252, 271 see also Which structure suits my film?
Daldry, stephen 401 Entertainer, The 69
dance troupe see multiple ⊛ epps, Jr, Jack 59, 104
⊚ Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless mind 167, 172,
Daniel, Frank 252, 259, 264–5, 323–7, 420
creating story around ⊛’s weakest exposition
point 76–7, 148 exposition-heavy films 377, 385–6, 390, 407
film consisting of seven episodes 59 in ⊕ writing 445–6, 448
magic letter 119, 159 Extraordinary Rendition 405
Daybreak 174, 182, 190, 192
De Bono, edward 4–5, 35 Falling in Love 411–12
Dead Poet’s Society, The 81, 162, 217 families, unhappy see multiple ⊛
deadline see crisis in script ⊧ ⊚
Death at a Funeral 173, 178, 211, 214–5 family fixes problem see multiple ⊛
deathbed story see multiple ⊛ ⊚
⊚ family gathering see multiple ⊛
Deliverance 178, 211 ⊚
Departed 174, 179, 246–7, 249, 434 Field, syd 04
⊧ strategies, list of x–xi Fight Club 169, 175, 180, 254–5, 259
diagrams, useful list viii-ix Finding Forrester 162
⊘ Finding Nemo 133, 174, 246, 249, 251, 434
arguments to transmit backstory 252–3 ⊫ see three-act structure act 1 a)–d)
backstory 445–8 Fish Called Wanda, A 159
covering weak structure 34, 139 flashback, all forms
exposition 449–69 basic or simple forms 175, 179–80, 254–70
in fiction 156 complex ⊚ forms 175, 179, 175,
time-consuming 226 271–327
writing 445–69 other ⊚ forms that use time jumps
Dinner Guest¸ The 178, 211 171–2, 175–6, 328–408
Dirty Dozen 211 see also Which structure suits my film?;
disturbance see three act structure act 1 b) flashback ⊚ (basic/simple);
disturbance flashback ⊚ (complex); flashback
Donnie Brasco 447 ⊚ (complex) case studies, hybrids
double journeys ⊚, described 162, 172, flashback ⊚ (basic/simple)
174–5, 246–7, 249 And when did you last see your Father? 175,
see also Which structure suits my film? 180, 254, 256
double journeys ⊚, plotting Annie Hall 169, 175, 180, 254–5, 258
adding depth 249–50 Babette’s Feast, Babette’s flashback 255–6
Cold mountain, problems 433–4 bookend flashback 257–9
⊖ 250 Brick 262
entry into a new world 249 Catch 22 267, 268, 269–70
future trends 251 centre-split flashback, Goodfellas 263
multiple plotlines 248–9 Cinderella retold in 256, 257, 259, 266, 269
Odyssey structure? 251 Cinema Paradiso 257, 259, 265
picking ⊙, message, action line 247–8 complex ⊚ or basic/simple
story content 248 flashback? 257, 261, 266
Driving miss Daisy 415–6 Constant Gardener, The 261, 265
Crimes and misdemeanors 255
Elephant man, The 81, 288 Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon 255
End of the Affair, The 179, 254, 257, 267–70, Curious Case of Benjamin Button, The 271
279, 302, 307–8 detective story 268
English Patient, The 26, 79, 175, 252, 261, 266, End of the Affair, The 267–70
271, 274, 278–9, 287–9, 291, 295–6, 308 Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless mind 264–5
480 The 21st-Century Screenplay
flashback ⊚ (basic/simple) (Cont.) milk 301–2, 304–5, 311
Fight Club 259 opposite views of human nature 278–9,
flashback as illustration/memory 255–6 280, 304
incremental dream 269 order of flashbacks 273–7, 282–5
life-changing incident 267–9 planning 304–12
memento 261 protagonists and antagonists 287–300
⊯ Clayton 261, 264 Remains of the Day, The 279, 288, 291,
preview flashback 259–66 298–9
Pulp Fiction 255 rosebud twist 281–2
regret flashback 256–7 second-act turning point 273–5
rosebud twist 258, 269 Shine see flashback ⊚ (complex)
Saving Private Ryan 258, 261 case studies, hybrids
Shine 261, 266 Slumdog millionaire see flashback ⊚
Slumdog millionaire 252–3, 257, 261, 266 (complex) case studies, hybrids
Sunset Boulevard 259, story in the present 181, 266, 271–6, 280–4,
Sweet Hereafter, The 205, 253, 261 see 294–300, 306–12
also flashback ⊚ (complex) case Sweet Hereafter, The 285, 307, 309, 314–8
studies, hybrids third act battle to win 280–1
There’s Something about mary 256 thwarted dream flashback 278–86, 304–12
Three Burials of melchiades Estrada 262 triggering crisis 273–4, 276–7, 280–1
Titanic 180, 254, 257-8 Usual Suspects, The see flashback ⊚
Twelve monkeys 269 (complex) case studies, hybrids
⊞-over autobiography 255, 301–3 when flashbacks end 276, 282
Walk the Line 157, 258, 259, 264 when to jump stories 271, 273–7, 304–12
where, when and how to use each 255–70, see also flashback (complex) case studies,
Wild Strawberries 269, hybrids
wrong preview ⊕ 260, 262 flashforward
see also flashback (complex) case studies, arriaga’s use of 381, 385, 395, 404
hybrids Bad Education 441
flashback ⊚ (complex) case studies, Sweet Hereafter, The 315, 317
hybrids flawed films, case studies
Constant Gardener, The 313–4 Bad Education 440–1
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless mind 323–7 Bootmen 424–5
Life of David Gale, The 318–20 Cold mountain 433–4
memento 320–3 Falling in Love 411–12
Shine, Slumdog millionaire, Citizen Kane Gods and monsters 438–9
and The Usual Suspects compared Guarding Tess 415–16
271–300 Ice Storm, The 427–8
Sweet Hereafter, The 314–8 Insider, The 412–13
flashback ⊚ (complex) Jaws 3 413–15
action and relationship lines 296–300 magnolia 191–3
Amadeus 289, 304, 311 mo’ Better Blues 425–6
autobiographical ⊞-over 255, 301–3 mr Saturday Night 434–7
case history flashback 278–86, 304–12 Oyster Farmer, The 426–7
characteristics 271–7, 285–6 Parallel Lives 214, 226, 236–7, 428, 431–3
Cinderella retold in 293–6 Pay It Forward 181
Citizen Kane see flashback ⊚ Peter’s Friends 427–8
(complex) case studies, hybrids Prelude to a Kiss 416–18
detective story 278, 272–3, 281, 290, 304, Short Cuts 193
307 Syriana 420–2
English Patient, The 274, 279, 287–9, 291, Thin Red Line, The 429–31
295, 296 Three Dollars 260
enigmatic outsider 271, 272, 287–9 Time Code 200
entry into a new world 326 28 Days 423–4
Fried Green Tomatoes 280–2, 290, 293, 296 Vantage Point 439–40
how flashback films open 273–6 Wedlock 82
index 481
Well 262 Fried Green Tomatoes 170, 271, 279–80, 282,
Winged Creatures 419–20 290, 293, 296, 308, 311
foreground story see action line Friends 135–7
Four Weddings and a Funeral 178, 213 creating plotline for 135–7
fractured tandem ⊚ (structural Fugitive 87
breakdowns and templates) Full monty, The 167, 173–4, 177–8, 207, 209,
Babel 401–5 211, 213, 215–16, 423, 425
Hours, The 399–401 funeral story see multiple ⊛ ⊚
Rendition 405–6
Three Burials of melchiades Estrada 397–9 gaghan, stephen 32, 183, 420
21 Grams 386–96 Galaxy Quest 174, 178, 211, 216, 227
fractured tandem ⊚, all forms gang story 210, 240
a fix for problem films? 377–8, 406, 415–18, see also comedy; heist; multiple ⊛
420–2, 440–1 ⊚
characteristics 376, 378–85 genre
consequences, accidental connections action movies 77
377–8, 382, 392, 403, 407 action thriller 141, 386, 439
death of the ⊪? 385 audience expectations 21–4
death, frequent use of 378–9, 381–2, 386, buddy movie 79–80 see also double
389, 394, 396–9, 402, 406–8 journeys ⊚
detective story based on dread 378, 401, combining 26
406 components of 23–4
frame 383–4, 399, 401, 408 components of 22–4
general 172, 176, 180–1, 376–9 ⊧ strategy 3, 22–4
profundity not obligatory 382 fairy tales as templates for thriller 27–8
prologue and epilogue 383–4, 399, 401, 408 gang story see multiple ⊛ ⊚
writer/director collaboration 401, 404, 408 genre equation 22–3
see also Which structure suits my film? genre equation 22–4
fractured tandem ⊚, plotting heist, comic 74–5, 179, 213, 227, 240
Babel as a template 405 horror film 40, 89–90
connections 381–4 hunt, chase 413–14
Crash 396–404, 426 inventing 26
exposition-heavy films 377, 385–6, 390, 407 monster 414, 89–90
flashforwards to cover joins between stories robbery movie 37, 74, 239
381, 385, 395–6, 398–9, 404, 407, 440–1 romantic comedy 12, 18–21, 37–8, 88,
guidelines for writing 407–8 162–3, 197
Hours, The as a template 401 sci-fi 41
pace via non-linearity 380–1 spy story 21, 23, 26, 86
Rendition as a template 406 war movie 24, 36
structural tricks to add pace 381–3 see also Which structure suits my film?
Three Burials of melchiades Estrada as a Gladiator 269
template 398–9 Go! 180, 328–9, 340, 342–6, 364
use to avert predictability 406, 420–2, case study and template 344–6, 364
440–1 Gods and monsters 82, 438–9
truncated or absent ⊪ 385–6, Gommorah 177, 422
389–91, 396, 407 Goodbye Lenin 47
21 Grams as a template 396 Goodfellas 157, 175, 179–80, 254, 258–9, 263,
twist endings 381, 383–4, 396, 399, 401, 370
405–6 Gosford Park 193, 207, 432
fractured tandem ⊚ (to fix structure) Gran Torino 38, 70, 109, 113
Bad Education 440–1 Great Escape, The 178, 211–12
Guarding Tess 415–16 Green mile, The 81, 178, 180, 252, 257–8
Prelude to a Kiss 418 Groundhog Day 180, 329, 337–40, 346,
Syriana 420–2 439–40
fragments see Winged Creatures Circle, The 334–5
Frank Daniel see Daniel, Frank Nines, The 340–1
482 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Groundhog Day (Cont.) Babel 401–2
repetition, handling it 337–8 case study 399–401
⊡ in portmanteau films 355, 362, editing 404
364 fractured tandem characteristics 176,
Run Lola Run 337–40 180–1, 346, 376–82, 384
Ten 335 parallel ⊚, general 167–8, 397
types of portmanteau 347–75 triplication 346, 384
Vantage Point 439–40 truncation 317, 404
group stories see multiple ⊛ ⊚ hunt stories 413
group story see multiple ⊛ ⊚ hunt, chase 413–4,
group with a mission see multiple ⊛
⊚ Ice Storm, The 427–8, 431
Guarding Tess 73–4, 114, 415–6 ideas
drowning in 13–14
haggis, Paul 32, 183, 377 getting 3–41
halperin, ⊯ 104 in characterisation 92
Hangover 172, 180, 211, 214, 259 myth 28–9, 54
hannibal lecter 81 non-⊚ triggers 30
Happy Feet 38 rejecting the first idea 17
hare, David 377–8, 399, 401 ⊪ 104–5, 109
harris, Charles 53, 162 triggering 3–41
Harry Potter books 156 using lateral and vertical thinking 3–41
heat via genre 23
comedy 136–7 writing to models 18–26
defined 38 see also clichés
double journey 250 In Bruges 173, 214, 217
flashback 181, 257, 259, 267, 438 in medias res 168–9
inner/outer story 76 inciting incident see three-act structure act 1
multiple protagonists 207–8, 215, 224, 229, b) disturbance
424–5, 427 Independence Day 182, 186, 188
staying with heat 141–2, 145 index cards 119, 198, 233–4
tool in a crisis 147, 152, 163–4 inner story see inner/outer story
wrong ⊛? 412 inner/outer story 76, 94, 97–8
see also spark, the Insider, The 82, 157, 438–9, 412–13
heist 236, 284, 178, 406 interweaving storylines
see also Burn After Reading; comedy; action and relationship lines 74–6
multiple ⊛ ⊚ multiple ⊛ 231–3
heist, comic 74–5, 179, 213, 227, 240 tandem ⊚ 198–202
hero see ⊛ see also index cards
hero’s Journey, The 28, 54, 59,94,104–5,120, Introducing the Dwights see Clubland
235, 274, 414 Invasion of the Barbarians 211
see also ⊛; vogler, Christopher Iris 81
Home Alone as Three Little Pigs 27–8 Italian for Beginners 178–9, 213
Home Song Stories, The 252, 257–8
homer 47, 169, 271, 347, 348, 368, 370 Jack and the Beanstalk as model 28, 99–100, 312
see also Odyssey Jack london 4
hook James Bond 38, 51, 80, 86, 89, 98, 439–40
consecutive stories 341, 361 Jane Austen Book Club, The 167, 172, 174,
conventional ⊚ 38, 51, 242 177–8, 207, 209, 212, 214–16, 218–19,
flashback (basic/simple) 254, 264 233–4, 428
fractured tandem (complex) 381, 385, 408 Jaws 3 78, 413–15
triggering crisis 273–4, 276–7, 280–1 Jean de Florette 81
horace, Ars Poetica 169 journey films, problems and strategies
horror film 40, 89–90 averting problems 160–1
Hours, The common problems 159–60
as template 401 journey itself or journey’s end 161
index 483
see also double journeys ⊚; multiple magnolia 167, 182, 191–3
⊛ ⊚; hero’s Journey, main ⊗ see action line
The; ⊛ making a Good Script Great 35
Joy Luck Club, The 146, 176–7, 180, 328–30, see also seger, linda
332, 335, 347 mckee, robert 104, 451
case study and template 348–51 me and You and Everyone We Know 174, 182,
Julie and Julia 246–7 185, 190–2
July, miranda 190 meantime 98
jumping stories between emotional high points memento 40, 167–8, 252, 261, 271, 280, 282,
see time jumps, when to jump; Which 285, 289, 301–2, 304, 309, 320–3, 343, 360–1
structure suits my film? men in Black 38, 51
Juno 47, 70 mentor ⊣ (complex flashback) 288–
Juror, The 87 91, 295, 298–9, 302, 304, 309–11, 318, 358
mentor ⊣ (conventional ⊚)
kaufman, Charlie xv, 323, 327, 446 coming of age 162
Killing Fields, The as Cinderella story 27 described 80–7, 90, 157–8, 162, 178, 195,
King Kong 80–1 213, 217, 236
Kiss of the Spider Woman 69 in adaptation 156–8, 412
kopell, J. mira 62 mercutio character see ⊛
message
Ladies in Lavender 52 described 39–41, 45
Lantana 167, 171–2, 174, 177, 182–6, 188, message and scenario 39–40
189–91, 194–5, 202, 220 no message? 40–1
Last Orders 161, 174 sentence to describe 41
lateral thinking see vertical and lateral thinking ⊙? 40
lawrence, ray 189 see also predictability; tandem ⊚
League of their Own, A 178, 211 form
Legal Eagles 59 ⊯ Clayton 170, 175, 180, 252, 254,
leigh, mike 201 258–61, 264
Lemon Tree, The 174, 179, 246–8, 434 ⊢ 52
Lethal Weapon 79 midsummer Night’s Dream, A 46
Life of David Gale, The 157, 170, 179, 271, mighty Ducks, The 178, 211
278–80, 285, 289, 293, 311, 318–20 milk 167, 179, 252, 271, 302, 304–5, 311
life stories mind map 35–6
danger areas 69, 115, 371, 263, 434–6 misfits, social see multiple ⊛
double biography 358 ⊚
forms most suited to 156–7, 161 mo’ Better Blues 216, 423, 425–6
famous people 304 monsoon Wedding 173–4, 178, 209, 211, 214,
double biography 358 237
see also autobiography monster movie 414, 89–90
Little miss Sunshine 162, 172, 174, 178, 207, monster stories 413
210–12, 214–16 monty Python and the Holy Grail 160
Little Red Riding Hood as model 27, 58, 61 motorcycle Diaries, The 81
Lives of Others, The 174, 179, 246–50, 434 mozart, Wolfgang amadeus 104, 438
Local Hero 179, 213, 217 mr Bean 98
logline 37, 41, 64 mr Saturday Night 8, 69, 237, 291, 297, 430,
Lord of the Rings, The 95, 156 433–7, 448
Love Actually 172, 174, 197, 182 mulholland Drive 155
Love! Valor! Compassion! 174, 178, 212, 214, multi-⊚ see parallel ⊚
229, 428 multiple ⊛ ⊚
suitable story content for 172, 173, 174,
macro (group action line) 177–9, 207–17, 235, 236
in tandem ⊚ 188–93 see also Which structure suits my film?
in multiple ⊛ ⊚ 222–7 multiple ⊛, plotting
magnificent Seven, The 46, 177–9, 207, 211, American Beauty 233, 240, 242–5
214–17, 235 Big Chill, The 433, 445, 226, 236–7
484 The 21st-Century Screenplay
multiple ⊛, plotting (Cont.) new world, entry into
bookend flashbacks 223 as the first-act turning point 102–3, 105,
Bootmen 424–5 118
character in action 232–3 double journey form 249
Full monty, The 209 in consecutive stories form 362
Galaxy Quest 227 in conventional ⊚ 102–3, 105, 118
Ice Storm, The 427–8 in flashback/tandem hybrid 326
interweaving 218–20, 231–3 New York Stories 333
Jane Austen Book Club, The 233–4 Night on Earth 328, 333
jumping stories 234 Nines, The 337, 339–41, 439
Little miss Sunshine 210 Nixon 266
mo’ Better Blues 425–6 non-linear see parallel ⊚
Oyster Farmer, The 426–7 non-linear film see parallel ⊚; Which
Parallel Lives 214, 226, 236–7, 428, 431–3 structure suits my film?
Peter’s Friends 427–8 non-linearity in classic works 169
plotting group action line 222–7 normality see three-act structure act 1 a)
plotting quests 235–6 normality
plotting relationship lines 228–34
plotting reunions 236–8 O Brother, Where Art Thou? 161, 169, 371, 375
plotting sieges 239–40 Ocean’s Eleven 178, 210
predictability 239–40, 244–5 Odyssey 47, 169, 251, 271, 347, 368, 370–6,
preliminary plotting 218–20 398, 434
story strands 218, 231–2 ohlin, lisa 357
Thin Red Line, The 429–31 one-act stories 197–8, 202, 205–6, 316, 380, 401
28 Days 423–4 see also fractured tandem; tandem ⊚
multiple protagonists, overview form
characters in search of a ⊗ 167, 173, 208, Ordinary People 174, 178, 207, 212, 214, 216,
209 240, 428
common problems 207–8, 422–6, 421–32, Out of Africa 69
422–6 outer story see inner/outer story
different versions of same ⊛ 209 outline
macro (group story) 213–14, 237–8, 227, described 62
427–31 getting it on the page 467–75
multiple stories see parallel ⊚ kopell, J. myra 62
muriel’s Wedding 23 tools to help with 117–19
musicians, band of see multiple ⊛ see also beats; ⊜ sheet
⊚ Oyster Farmer, The 146, 216, 423, 426–7
mystery Alaska 211
mystic River 174, 179, 213 Pan’s Labyrinth 174, 182, 187
panic see crisis in script ⊧
⊚ sentences Paradise Grove 178, 212
basis for outline 64, 66–7 Paradise Road 212
described 41, 64, 66–8, 75 Parallel Lives 200, 214, 226, 236–7, 428, 431–3
in a crisis 147, 154 parallel ⊚
in group stories 222 based on three-act structure 48, 168
in Pulp Fiction stories 355 do you need parallel ⊚? 181
Nashville 172, 174, 177, 182, 184–8, 193–5, ensemble films 172–5
200, 220–1 group stories 172–5
National Lampoon Vacation 178 non-linearity ancient 168–9
new world setting as good ingredient 38 six categories of 171–4
as the first-act turning point 102–3, 105, terminology 169–70
118 time jumps 171–2, 175–6
double journey form 249 two main types 171
in consecutive stories form 362 Which structure suits my film? 177–81
in conventional ⊚ 102–3, 105, 118 see also autobiography; consecutive stories
in flashback/tandem hybrid form 326 form; double journeys form; ensemble
index 485
films; flashback ⊚ (complex); What film are we in? 31–41
flashback ⊚ (basic/simple); wrong ⊗ locked in 31–2, 35, 144–6
tandem ⊚ form; fractured see also three-act structure, plotting
tandem ⊚, multiple ⊛ relationship line; three-act structure,
⊚ plotting action line; predictability
Paris, je t’aime 180, 328–9, 333–4 plotting, general guide
passion for project close plotting (beats) 133–7, 197
control 3, 31, 35–6, 119, 141–2, 148 collapsing turning points 139–41
didacticism 194–5, 201 conventional ⊚ 45–125
Paul Thompson 55, 59–60 flawed films, case studies 411–44
see also smiley/Thompson nine-point plan inherent problems of screenwriting 129–32
Pay It Forward 181, 266, 273, 290 interweaving stories 198–200
Peter’s Friends 237, 427–8 losing objectivity after many drafts 148, 447
Piano, The 76, 97, 106, 116, 119–25, 273, 279, new ⊛ in ⊪ 143
281, 306, 411 parallel ⊚ 167–408
case study 119–25 tips, traps, rewriting 144–54
complications 106 truncation 197
good first-act turning point 411 writing in code 141–3
inner/outer story 76, 97 see also crisis in script ⊧; flawed
symbolism 116 films, case studies; interweaving storylines;
to help with outline 119 ⊗, common problems; strands, story;
Picnic at Hanging Rock 467 index cards; three-act structure
Pilgrim’s Progress, The and redemption 29 portmanteau see consecutive stories ⊚,
pitch all forms
dangers 32–6, 118 predictability
to create 36–7 consecutive stories 335
treatment as 469 multiple ⊛ form 239–40, 244–5
pitch competitions, as dangerous 32 preventing via fractured tandem 378,
plan of film 420–2, 439–41
basic plan of film 62–3 social siege stories 240
experienced writers mentally plan 31–2 tandem ⊚ 183, 195–6, 200–1, 203,
Planes, Trains and Automobiles 88, 160–1, 416 420–2
Player, The 99, 411 see also ⊗, common problems
⊗ points 52 Prelude to a Kiss 103, 382, 416–18, 441
⊗, common problems Pretty Woman 27
changing the film to fit weak ⊗ point Priscilla, Queen of the Desert 117, 161–2
144–5 prisoners see multiple ⊛ ⊚
characters in search of ⊗ 98, 173, 183, problem in script ⊧ see crisis in
188, 195 script ⊧
characters physically indistinguishable 146 prodigal returns see multiple ⊛
confusing an idea with a story 71 ⊚
didacticism 194–5, 201, 378, 401, 421 Proposition, The 174, 246–7
films lost in the telling 409–41 ⊛ 78–85
fractured tandem to avert 378, 401, 421 see also three-act structure, ⊛
genres with particular plotting problems ⊛ in parallel ⊚ 287–96
155–64 complex flashback 287–96, 438–9
group story as single-hero story 422–7 ‘same ⊙, different adventures’ 174, 177,
literary device 145–6 183, 201
lasting objectivity 148, 447 ‘same team, same adventure’ 174
no group action line 422–31 weak ⊛ in forefront 357–60
not enough story to fill the time 51, 71 ‘two lives in parallel’ 174–5
pitch not fulfilled in script 32–6 see also consecutive stories ⊚;
⊗ not holy 35, 144 fractured tandem ⊚; Which
practical plotting 129–54 structure suits my film?
story not vividly original enough 3 ⊛’s plan see three-act structure act 1
vertical/lateral thinking imbalance 5–10 c) ⊛’s plan
486 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Psycho 27, 85, 145 Samson and Delilah 52, 98, 101–2, 109
Pulp Fiction 23, 29, 47, 78, 167, 169, 176, 180, satire see comedy
254–5, 328–9, 331–2, 335, 337–8, 345, Saving Private Ryan 174–5, 178, 207, 211,
347–8, 361, 364, 371, 375, 381 214–15, 217, 223, 235, 244, 254, 257–8, 261
case study and template 351–7 scenario
described 39–41
Quantum of Solace 80 divided into plotlines 41
Queen, The 174, 179, 246–8, 250, 434 sentence to describe 41
quest stories 210–1, 235–6 what your film should contain and depict
see also multiple ⊛ ⊚ 63, 118
Scent of a Woman 81–3, 162, 437
Rachel Getting married 240 sci-fi 41
Radiance 178, 211, 214 ⊪ see three-act structure act 2 a)–c)
Rain man 80–1, 83, 85, 288 second-act turning point in parallel ⊚
Ransom 416 tandem ⊚ 203–6
Rashomon 171, 176, 180, 328–9, 332, 337–40, multiple ⊛ films 233, 239, 243,
346, 439–40 267–8
Reader, The 131 preview flashback 261, 263–5
Remains of the Day, The 157, 160, 167, 179, flashback as life-changing incident 267–8
252, 254, 261, 278–9, 288, 291, 295, 298–9, complex flashback 273–5, 277–9, 281, 285,
308, 436 295, 302, 306, 313, 316, 318, 325
Rendition 180, 376–81, 384, 397, 421 consecutive stories 332, 339, 343, 345,
case study and template 405–6 346–8, 354–7, 358, 362–4, 365–8
⊡ see three-act structure act 3 c) fractured tandem 281, 381, 389, 391, 396,
⊡; parallel ⊚ 398, 402–4, 407
reunion stories 211–12, 236–8 Secret of the Grain, The 101–2, 109
see also multiple ⊛ ⊚ seger, linda 35, 40, 53, 76, 102–4, 448, 470
Revolutionary Road 167, 172, 174, 179, 207, Seinfeld 134
212–13, 215–16, 225, 240, 244 sequential ⊚ see consecutive stories
rewriting 31, 146–53, 447 ⊚
rites of passage films 162 Shakespeare in Love 304
robbery movie 37, 74, 239 shakespeare 4, 16, 27, 29, 46, 84, 182
Romancing the Stone 416 Shawshank Redemption, The 80–1, 85, 178,
romantic comedy 213
averting problems 162–3, 197 Shine 83, 157, 167, 171, 179, 252, 261, 266,
planning 12,18–21, 23, 37–8 271–6, 278–9, 281–3, 286–9, 290–2, 295–8,
Tootsie 106 306, 308–10, 313, 346
truncation, Love Actually 197 Shine, Slumdog millionaire, Citizen Kane
romantic comedy 12, 18–21, 37–8, 88, 162–3, and The Usual Suspects compared
197 271–300
Romeo and Juliet 19, 29, 84 Shipping News, The 130
rosebud twist Short Cuts 174, 182, 186, 193, 429
autobiographical narrator 318–19 short films 7, 152, 163–4, 332
bookend flashback 243, 257–8 Sideways 37
case history 284–5, 289, 294, 299–0, 321–2 siege films
consecutive stories 346, 363 sieges difficult 7, 139, 142, 412
fractured tandem 422 multiple ⊛ siege 152, 174, 178,
incremental flashback 269 209–45, 422, 426, 428, 430
preview flashback 417 siege stories 212, 239–40
see also three-act structure act 3 d) optional see also multiple ⊛ ⊚
twist ⊥/rosebud twist simon, herbert 31
rubin, Danny 338 Simpsons, The 159
Run Lola Run 171, 176, 180, 328–31, 337–41, Six Days Seven Nights 114
346, 362, 381, 439–40 sixth draft syndrome 148, 447
Ruthless People 179, 213, 416 Sleepers 178, 210
Sliding Doors 187
index 487
Slumdog millionaire 27, 47, 83, 109, 167, structure charts 63, 65
170–1, 175, 179, 252–3, 257, 261, 266, 269, structure, ensemble see ensemble films
274–5, 278–9, 281, 289, 291, 300, 307–8, structure, parallel ⊚ see parallel
310 ⊚
Shine, Slumdog millionaire, Citizen Kane subplot see ensemble films; tandem ⊚;
and The Usual Suspects compared three-act structure, plotting relationship
271–300 line multiple ⊛ ⊚;
smiley/Thompson nine-point plan fractured tandem
described 55–6, 58, 60, 64, 66 suburban misfits see multiple ⊛
in group stories 222–3, 235 ⊚
in flashback 282 Sunset Boulevard 254–5, 259
in fractured tandem 388, 391, 395 superheroes 80
see also ⊚ sentences see also James Bond
social minorities see multiple ⊛ Swamp Dwellers 179, 212
⊚ Sweet Hereafter, The 47, 167, 205, 252–3,
soldiers on a mission see multiple ⊛ 261–2, 271, 280, 285, 307, 309, 314–18, 389
⊚ swicord, robin 200, 233, 346, 351, 403
Something in the Air 468 symbolism 63, 116–17, 116–18, 120, 124–5, 163
Sophie’s Choice 80–1, 85 Synecdoche, New York 47, 109
Space Cowboys 178, 210–11, 229 Syriana 182–3, 185, 420–2, 441
spark, the
described 36–8 tandem ⊚ form 174, 177, 182
finding 37 see also Which structure suits my film?
group adventure 209 tandem ⊚ form, analysed
heat 38–9 actor improvisation 200–1
in a crisis 119, 142, 152, 154 big casts best served by tandem 221
in planning 41, 61 Caramel 183, 185, 189–90
rewriting 146–7, 150, 152, 154 characters in search of a ⊗ 173, 183, 188,
romantic comedy 37, 163 195
spine, story checklist for writing 201–2
components 52 City of Hope case study 203–6
see also ⊗, common problems; smiley/ connection and types of 184, 185–7
Thompson nine-point plan; three-act Daybreak 190, 192
structure act 1 a)–d); three-act structure interweaving plots 198–9, 201–2
act 2 a)–c); three-act structure act 3 Lantana 183, 186, 189, 190, 191, 194, 195,
a)–d) 202
sports team see multiple ⊛ ⊚ Love Actually 197
spy story 21, 23, 26, 86 macro ⊗ 188–93
Stand by me 162, 178, 211, 257–8 magnolia 191–3
star need not be ⊛ 81, 85, 422–5 me and You and Everyone We Know 190–1
Star Wars 38 Nashville 184, 188, 195
Station Agent 59, 70, 98, 110, 114 open-ended? 193
Steel magnolias 211 planning a tandem ⊚ 194–202
story steps see beats plotting issues in 197–202, 419–22
strands, story predictability and averting it 183, 195–7,
Gods and monsters 426 420–2
multiple ⊛ films 217–33 same ⊙, different adventures 183, 201
Pulp Fiction 354 Short Cuts 193
stranding 137, 208 Syriana 182, 183, 185, 420–2
see also beats tandem or multiple ⊛ form? 220
stress ⊙ and message 183, 186–7, 188–9
creativity under stress 3–30 Traffic 171, 173, 183, 185, 186, 188, 195,
permission to panic 147 196, 202
writing under pressure 151–4 truncation 197–8, 202, 205–6
see also crisis in script ⊧ Winged Creatures 419–20
Strictly Ballroom 10, 416, 424 see also macro ⊗
488 The 21st-Century Screenplay
Tea with mussolini 162, 179, 217, 223 three-act structure act 3 a) battle to win
team story see multiple ⊛ ⊚ battle to win 52, 54, 58, 104, 109–10, 113,
Ten 176, 328–30, 334–5, 352 123, 138, 168, 183, 226, 253, 319, 346,
Terminator II 89 402
The Red Violin 330 consecutive stories 338–9, 344–6, 440
Thelma and Louise 51–3, 78–9, 88–9, 100–2, fractured tandem 390–1, 396
160–1, 247, 385, 448 general 50–5, 58, 104–5, 109, 110–11,
⊙ 113–15
⊙ and message same? 40 group stories 206, 233, 239, 245
linda seger on ⊙ 40 in flashback 253, 265, 267, 279–82, 286,
‘same ⊙, different adventures’ 174, 177, 299, 302, 306–7, 310, 313, 317, 319
183, 201 journey films 161
consecutive stories 330–2, 334, 336, 348, portmanteau 355, 358, 364–6
365, 377 truncation 168, 197, 206, 317
fractured tandem 381–4, 399, 403, 405, 407 three-act structure act 3 b) ⊝
see also message; tandem ⊚ form; action line 39, 46, 49–56, 58–61, 63, 66,
macro (group action line) 75–6
There’s Something about mary 256 inner/outer story 76, 97
Thin Red Line, The 427, 429–31 link to first-act turning point 52, 100–1,
threat of death 214–15 105, 109–10, 113–14
multiple ⊛ or tandem? 200, 220 relationship line 75–6
typical characters 215–17, 236, 238, 241, 242 three-act structure act 3 c) ⊡
three-act structure act 1 a) normality general 54–6, 60, 66, 105, 115, 123, 158
described 56–7, 68–70 open-ended films 193
repeated 69, 237, 291, 415, 430, 433–7 three-act structure act 3 d) optional twist
three-act structure act 1 b) disturbance ⊥/rosebud twist
described 51–2 autobiographical narrator 318–19
different sorts 51 bookend flashback 243, 257–8
hook 38, 51, 242 case history 284–5, 289, 294, 299–300,
involves real change 70 321–2
not a feeling, an action 51, 70 consecutive stories 346, 363
three-act structure act 1 c) ⊛’s plan fractured tandem 422
described 56, 57, 60, 99 incremental flashback 269
problem, goal, journey 69 preview flashback 417
to create surprise 99–100 three-act structure, plotting action line
three-act structure act 1 d) first-act turning 51–118, 137, 140–3
point see also three-act structure, ⊛;
described 52, 100–3 three-act structure act 1 a)–d); three-act
entry into new world 102–3, 105, 118 structure act 2 a)–c); three-act structure
Falling in Love, film without 411–12 act 3 a)–d)
linked with ⊝ 100 three-act structure, plotting relationship line
to pick what film’s ‘about’ 100 relationship line described 58–9, 73
three-act structure act 2 a) complications caused by action line 73
described 50–5, 57, 59, 71, 75–6, 84, how to pick 72
99–101, 104–12 how to create 73–4
inventing complications in 99–100, 104, peg to action line 74–6
106–7 three-act structure of 75–6
problems in 71, 101, 105 interweaving with action line 76
relationship line 75–6, 88, 110–12 three-act structure, ⊛
truncation 53–4, 112 accepted definition doesn’t always work
three-act structure act 2 b) worst moment 79–85
second-act turning point part 1 (worst battle to win see three-act structure act 3
moment) 52, 54, 57, 75, 107–10, 112 a)–d)
three-act structure act 2 c) fight back changing protagonists in ⊪ 141–3
second-act turning point part 2 (fighting character arcs 94–7
back) 53–4, 58, 107–10, 112 character charts 92–4, 158–9
index 489
described 45, 55, 78–9 preview flashback 259–66
establish early 78 jumping between emotional highpoints
in buddy films 79–80 234, 346, 351
inner flaw 97, 118, 123 see also three-act structure act 2 b)–c);
mercutio character 84–6, 90, 145 Which structure suits my film?
misleading plan to create surprise 99–100 Titanic 180, 254, 257–8
not always the most interesting character To Live 178, 212, 240
80–2 Tootsie 38, 95–6, 100–2, 106, 385
passive, can work 81–4, 357–60 Top Gun 59
plan described 56, 57, 60, 99 Topsy Turvy 214, 428
problem, goal, journey 69 town in trouble see multiple ⊛
⊛’s journey 28–9, 45, 52–9 ⊚
redemption not compulsory 29–30 Toy Story 38
second-act turning point see three-act Traffic 32, 47, 167, 171–4, 177, 182–6, 188,
structure act 2 a)–d) 195–6, 202
star does not have to play ⊛ 81, treatment
85, 422–5 described 59, 62, 64
superheroes 80 see also James Bond writing 467–79
things to remember about 85 ⊚ sentence as basis 66–7
weak ⊛ can work 81–4, 357–60 see also outline
who is? 78–85 triggering crisis (flashback), 273–4, 276–7,
wrong ⊛ 81–2, 412–13, 436–7 280–1
see also ⊣; hero’s Journey, The; True Lies 77, 88
three-act structure act 1 a)–d); mentor Tucker, richard 390, 396
⊣; ⊛ (parallel Tulpan 78, 109, 114
⊚); three-act structure act 2 Turner and Hooch 59
a)–c); three-act structure act 3 a)–d) turning points 52–3
three-act structure see also three-act structure act 1 a)–d);
aristotle admired non-linearity 47 three-act structure act 2 a)–c); three-act
as eight parts 59 structure act 3 a)–d)
as mountain 54 Twelve monkeys 269
as seven episodes 59 28 Days 216, 423–5
as timeline 54 21 Grams 41, 57, 167–9, 176, 180, 196, 317,
as vogler’s hero’s journey 54 346, 370–1, 376, 378–9, 380–5, 398, 400,
chronological build to closure 50–1 418, 441
Cinderella 57–8 case study and template 117, 386–96
homer’s Odyssey non-linear 47, 169 see also arriaga, guillermo
how to create 45–119 Twins 37, 39–40, 141
limits of 46–8 twist ⊥ see three-act structure, act 3 d)
no one method foolproof 48 optional twist ⊥/rosebud twist
optimism not compulsory 47
Poetics 47, 168 Usual Suspects, The 167, 175, 252, 271, 274–6,
⊛ doesn’t need to improve 46–7 278–9, 281–5, 288–9, 300
redemption not compulsory 47 Shine, Slumdog millionaire, Citizen Kane
safest structure 47 and The Usual Suspects compared
smiley/Thompson nine points 55–8 271–300
strengths 46–8
story types it suits 47 Vantage Point 180–1, 328–9, 337, 340, 362,
Three Burials of melchiades Estrada 176, 180, 439–40
262, 346, 376, 378–84, 386–7, 403 vertical thinking see ideas
case study and template 397–9 Vicky Cristina Barcelona 162, 172, 174, 179,
Three Dollars 260 246–8, 250
Three Little Pigs, The 27, 39 vogler, Christopher 88
thriller see action thriller archetypes in characterisation 94, 230
Time Code 200 entry into another world 102–5, 118, 120,
time jumps, when to jump 362
490 The 21st-Century Screenplay
vogler, Christopher (Cont.) 21 Grams 394
hero’s journey described 28–9, 54 unreliable narrator 176, 259
in flashback 274–5 vorhaus, John 230
⊛-driven 59
to pick first-act turning point 102–5, 118, Waking Ned Devine 179, 212, 215
362 Walk the Line 157, 258–60, 264
21 Grams 388 Wall–E 38
Writers’ Journey, The 28–9 Waltz with Bashir 363
⊞-over war movie 24, 36
American Beauty 242 weak writing see ⊗, common problems
autobiographical flashback 79, 84, 176, 272, weddings see multiple ⊛ ⊚
301–3 Wedlock 82
autobiographical flashback film 255–6, 272, Well 262
301, 304–5, 307, 309–10, 315 West Wing, The 448
City of God 359–61 Which structure suits my film? 177–81
Goodfellas 263 Wild Strawberries 269
Hours, The 384, 399 Winged Creatures 172, 180, 326, 360, 419–20
Joy Luck Club, The 349 Witness 58, 72, 416
memento 320–2 workmates see multiple ⊛ ⊚
problems and averting them 84, 130, 144, writer/director collaboration 401, 404, 408
176, 260, 302–3, 429, 429–31, 459–60 writer’s block see crisis in script ⊧
Remains of the Day, The 299 Writer’s Journey, The 28–9
Run Lola Run 331, 339 see also vogler, Christopher
single flashback 79, 84, 259 writing without a plan 31
Sweet Hereafter, The 315
Thin Red Line, The 429–31 You Can Count on me 178, 212, 217
