PRAISE FOR SYD F I E L D
"[Syd Field is] the most sought-after screenwriting teacher in the
world."—Hollywood Reporter
"Syd Field is the preeminent analyzer in the study of American screenplays."
—JAMES L. BROOKS, Academy Award-winning writer, director, producer
"I based Like Water for Chocolate on what I learned in Syd's books. Before,
I always felt structure imprisoned me, but what I learned was structure
really freed me to focus on the story."
—LAURA ESQUIVEL, writer, Like Water for Chocolate
"If I were writing screenplays ... I would carry Syd Field around in my
back pocket wherever I went."
—STEVEN BOCHCO, writer/producer/director, NYPD Blue
"Syd Field's book[s] have been the Bible and Talmud for a generation of
budding screenwriters." —Salon.com
SCREENPLAY:
The Foundations of Screenwriting
" Screenplay is one of the bibles of the film trade and has launched many a
would-be screenwriter on the road to Hollywood."—Library Journal
"[Syd Field is the] guru of would-be screenwriters __ Screenplay is their
bestselling bible."—Los Angeles Herald Examiner
"Full of common sense, an uncommon commodity."—Esquire
"Quite simply the only manual to be taken seriously by aspiring screen-
writers."—TONY BILL, Academy Award-winning producer, director
"Impressive because of its rare combinations: a technical book, appar-
ently mechanically sound, that's quite personable and lively and also
seems to care about us, about our doing things right and making good.
His easy-to-follow, step-by-step approaches are comforting and his em-
phasis on right attitude and motivation is uplifting."
—Los Angeles Times Book Review
"A much-needed book."
—FRANK PIERSON, Academy Award-winning screenwriter;
president, Writers Guild of America, West
"The basics of the craft in terms simple enough to enable any beginner to
develop an idea into a submittable script."—American Cinematographer
"A much-needed book... straightforward and informed ... accurate and
clear, and should be enormously helpful to novices."—Fade-In
"The complete primer, a step-by-step guide from the first glimmer of an
idea to marketing the finished script."—New West
"Experienced advice on story ⊧, creation and definition of
characters, structure of action, and direction of participants. Easy-to-
follow guidelines and a commonsense approach mark this highly useful
manual."—Video
"Great advice for screenwriters. I always tell young writers to pick up
Screenplay and read it right away—then either embrace it or rebel against
it, ⊮'ll certainly get your mind turning in the right ways."
—DAVID KOEPP, award-winning writer, director,
Spider-Man, Secret Window, War of the Worlds
THE SCREENWRITER'S WORKBOOK:
Exercises and Step-by-Step Instruction for Creating
a Successful Screenplay
"One of the standards in the industry."—Amazon.com
SELLING A SCREENPLAY:
The Screenwriter's Guide to Hollywood
"A wonderful book that should be in every filmmaker's library."
—HOWARD KAZANJIAN, producer, Raiders of the Lost Ark,
Return ofthejedi, Demolition Man
"An informative, engaging look at the inside of the dream factory. This is
a terrific aid for screenwriters who are trying to gain insight into the
Hollywood system."
—DAVID KIRKPATRICK, producer, former head of Paramount Pictures
FOUR SCREENPLAYS:
Studies in American Screenplay
"A book that writers will stand in line for and studio executives will
Xerox." —JAMES L. BROOKS, Academy Award-winning writer, director,
producer
"What does it take to write a great script? You'll find the answer here....
This is Field's masterpiece and a required purchase for all film collec-
tions."—Library Journal
"A first-rate analysis of why good screenplays work: a virtual must for as-
piring screenwriters."
—LINDA OBST, producer, How to Lose a Guy in Ten Days,
Sleepless in Seattle
"A fascinating view into the most overlooked process of filmmaking."
—⊯ BESMAN, producer, About Schmidt
"Theory comes alive with this hands-on approach to what makes four
great screenplays tick."
—DEBORAH JELIN NEWMYER, producer, executive vice president,
Amblin Entertainment
"Four Screenplays is not only Syd Field's most instructive book ... it's the
most fun to read."
—ANNA HAMILTON PHELAN, screenwriter, Girl, Interrupted
"One of the very best books I have read on movies or screenplays. Syd
writes both with passion and an astute understanding."
—HANS ZIMMER, film composer, Gladiator,
The Last Samurai, Thelma & Louise
THE SCREENWRITER'S PROBLEM SOLVER:
How to Recognize, Identify, and Define Screenwriting Problems
"Whatever your problem, screenwriting guru Syd Field can help."
—Amazon.com
GOING TO THE MOVIES:
A Personal Journey Through Four Decades of Modern Film
"The master teacher of screenplay writing... reveals himself to be a true
Hollywood character. No one sees films quite the way Field does___An
original thinker worth appreciating."—Kirkus Reviews
"Although cloaked in modesty, his illuminating, consistently entertaining
memoir displays enough wit, intelligence and empathy to inspire a host
of great films."—Publishers Weekly
"Syd Field knows movies inside and out, and this, his most personal book
yet, is charming, warmhearted, and very wise. Grab some popcorn, sit
back and share some big-screen magic with the master."
—TED TALLY, Academy Award-winning screenwriter,
The Silence of the Lambs
"What really makes this book is how well he conducts us on his journey...
[and] his true love for the movies."—Booklist
"Those of us who've wondered why Syd would devote himself to raising
the bar for screenwriting now learn why—a lifelong and passionate love
for movies and filmmaking."
—MARC NORMAN, Academy Award-winning screenwriter,
Shakespeare in Love
"A fascinating journey through thirty years of moviegoing—asking the
question we all ask: 'What makes a movie work?' and finding the answers."
—FAY KANIN, former president, Academy of
Motion Picture Arts and Sciences
"Field forges new pathways into understanding the transforming powers
of the screenplay. In this insightful testament to film craft, Field's influ-
ence on generations of film devotees represents a climate of opinion, re-
spected and imitated. Nothing is more rare."
—JAMES RAGAN, director, Professional Writing Program,
University of Southern California
"Field's passion for cinema shines throughout."—Library Journal
"Syd Field has spent a lifetime seeking answers to what makes a great
movie. Now he shares his own remarkable story about the movies and the
legendary filmmakers who inspired his extraordinary career."—Variety
A l s o by S y d F i e l d
GOING TO THE MOVIES
SELLING A SCREENPLAY
FOUR SCREENPLAYS
THE SCREENWRITER'S WORKBOOK
THE SCREENWRITER'S PROBLEM SOLVER
SYD F I E L D
SCREENPLAY
THE FOUNDATIONS OF SCREENWRITING
R E V I S E D E D I T I O N
Delta
Trad« Paperbacks
SCREENPLAY
A Delta Book
PUBLISHING HISTORY
Dell Trade Paperback edition published July 1984
Delta trade paperback revised edition / December 2005
Published by Bantam Dell
A Division of Random House, Inc.
New York, New York
Grateful acknowledgment is made for permission to use the following: James
Cameron for his insight on Terminator 2: Judgment κ. David Koepp for his
insight on Jurassic Park. Stuart Beattie for an excerpt from the screenplay of
Collateral. Robert Towne for an excerpt from the screenplay of Chinatown.
McDonald's Corporation for "Press On," the motto of McDonald's Corporation.
"Sitting" by Cat Stevens: © 1972 Freshwater Music Ltd.—London, England.
All rights for U.S.A. and Canada controlled by Ackee Music, Inc. (ASCAP).
All rights reserved. Used by permission.
All rights reserved
Copyright © 1979,1982,1994,2005 by Syd Field
Cover design by Belina Huey
Book design by Sabrina Bowers
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS CATALOGING-IN-PUBLICATION DATA
Field, Syd. Screenplay : the
foundations of screenwriting / by Syd Field.
p. cm. ISBN-13: 978-0-
385-33903-2
ISBN-10: 0-385-33903-8 1. Motion
picture authorship. I. Title.
PN1996 .F43 2005
808.2'3 22 2005048491
Delta is a registered trademark of Random House, Inc., and
the colophon is a trademark of Random House, Inc.
Printed in the United States of America
Published simultaneously in Canada
www.bantamdell.com BVG 10
9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
To all those who went before
and to all those who follow...
and
To the great Siddha Saints and Masters
who lit the flame and keep the fire burning...
A SPECIAL THANKS
To the extraordinarily gifted screenwriters Robert
Towne, James Cameron, David Koepp, and Stuart
Beattie; to Marc Heims at DreamWorks; to Sterling
Lord and Shannon Jamieson Vazquez, who ran the
rapids with me on this; and to all the people in
Landmark Education who gave me the space, the
opportunity, and the support to grow and expand
enough to write this book.
And of course, to Aviva, who shares the light of this
path with me.
Contents
Introduction 1
1. What Is a Screenplay? 15
2. The Subject 31
3. The Creation of Character 43
4. Building a Character 59
5. Story and Character 74
6. Endings and Beginnings 89
7. Setting Up the Story 106
8. Two Incidents 127
9. ⊗ Points 142
10. The ⊕ 160
11. The ⊟ 183
12. Building the Story Line 199
13. Screenplay Form 215
14. Writing the Screenplay 238
15. Adaptation 257
16. On Collaboration 275
17. After It's Written 289
18. A Personal Note 305
Index 311
TO THE READER:
My task ... is to make you hear, to make you feel—
and, above all, to make you see.
That is all, and it is everything.
—Joseph Conrad
Introduction
"The book says that we may be through with
the past, but the past may not be through
with us."
—Magnolia Paul Thomas
Anderson
In 1979, when I first wrote Screenplay: The Foundations of
Screenwriting, there were only a few books on the market that dealt
with the art and craft of screenwriting. The most popular was Lagos
Egri's The Art of Dramatic Writing, first published in the 1940s.
Though it was not really a book about screenwriting, but playwrit-
ing, the principles laid out were precise and clear. At that time, there
was no real distinction made between the crafts of writing for the
stage and writing for the screen.
Screenplay changed all that. It laid out the principles of dramatic
structure to establish the foundations of screenwriting. It was also
the first book to use well-known and popular movies of the time to
illustrate the craft of writing for the screen. And, as we all know,
screenwriting is a craft that occasionally rises to the level of art.
When it was first published, it became an immediate best seller,
or "an instant sensation," as my publisher labeled it. Within the first
few months of publication it went through several printings and
became a "hot" topic of discussion. Everyone, it seemed, was sur-
prised by its meteoric success.
Except me. During my teaching and lecturing on screenwriting
in the 1970s at Sherwood Oaks Experimental College in Holly-
wood, I saw people from all walks of life burning with an incredible
2 —SCREENPLAY—
desire to write screenplays. Hundreds of people flowed thorough
my course on screenwriting, and it soon became clear that everyone
had a story to tell. They just didn't know how to tell it.
Since that κ in the early spring of 1979 when Screenplay first
arrived on bookstore shelves, there has been a tremendous upsurge
in the evolution of writing for the screen. Today, the popularity of
screenwriting and filmmaking is an integral part of our culture and
cannot be ignored. Walk into any bookstore and you'll see shelves
and shelves devoted to all aspects of filmmaking. In fact, the two
most popular majors on college campuses are business and film.
And with the dramatic rise of computer technology and computer
graphic imagery, the expanded influence of MTV, reality TV, Xbox,
PlayStation, and new wireless LAN technology, and the enormous
increase in film festivals both here and abroad, we're in the ⊦
of a cinematic revolution. It won't be too long before we make a
short film on our telephones, e-mail them to our friends, and project
them on our TV. Clearly, we have evolved in the way we see things.
Take a look at the epic adventure Lord of the Rings (all three
parts), or the portrait of the modern family illustrated in American
Beauty, or the emotional and visual impact of Seabiscuit, or the
literary presentations of The Bourne Supremacy, Cold Mountain,
Memento, Rushmore, Magnolia, The Royal Tenenbaums, or Eternal
Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, compare them to any films of the '70s
or '80s, and you'll see the distinctions of this revolution: the images
are fast; the information conveyed is visual, rapid; the use of silence
is exaggerated; and the special effects and music are heightened and
more pronounced. The concept of time is often more subjective and
nonlinear, more novelistic in tone and execution. Yet, while the
tools and technique of storytelling have evolved and progressed
based on the needs and technologies of the time, the art of story-
telling has remained the η.
Movies are a combination of art and science; the technological
revolution has literally changed the way we see movies and there-
fore, by necessity, has changed the way we write movies. But no mat-
ter what changes are made in the execution of the material, the
nature of the screenplay is the η as it has always been: A screen-
play is a story told with pictures, in ⊘ and description, and
— INTRODUCTION— 3
placed within the context of dramatic structure. That's what it is; that
is its nature. It is the art of visual storytelling.
The craft of screenwriting is a creative process that can be
learned. To tell a story, you have to set up your characters, introduce
the dramatic premise (what the story is about) and the dramatic sit-
uation (the circumstances surrounding the action), create obstacles
for your characters to confront and overcome, then resolve the story.
You know, boy meets girl, boy gets girl, boy loses girl. All stories,
from Aristotle through all the constellations of civilization, embody
the η dramatic principles.
In Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, Frodo becomes
the ring bearer to return the ring to its place of origin, Mount
Doom, so he can destroy it. That is his dramatic need. How he gets
there and completes the task is the story. Lord of the Rings: The
Fellowship of the Ring sets up the characters and situation and nar-
rative through line; it establishes Frodo and the Shire, as well as the
Fellowship, who set off on their mission to Mount Doom. Part II,
The Two Towers, dramatizes the obstacles Frodo, Sam, and the
Fellowship confront on their journey to destroy the ring. They are
confronted with obstacle after obstacle that hinder their mission. At
the η time, Aragorn and the others must overcome many chal-
lenges to defeat the Ores at Helms Deep. And Part III, The Return of
the King, resolves the story: Frodo and Sam reach Mount Doom
and watch as the ring and the Gollum fall into the fires and are de-
stroyed. Aragorn is crowned king, and the hobbits return to the
Shire and their life plays out.
Set-up, confrontation, and ⊡.
It is the stuff of drama. I learned this when I was a kid sitting in
a darkened theater, popcorn in hand, gazing in awe and wonder at
the images projected on the white river of light reflected on that
monster screen.
A native of Los Angeles (my grandfather arrived here from
Poland in 1907), I grew up surrounded by the film industry. When I
was about ten, as a member of the Sheriff's Boys' Band, I was cast in
Frank Capra's The State of the Union, starring Spencer Tracy and
Katharine Hepburn. I don't remember much about the experience
except that Van Johnson taught me how to play checkers.
4 —SCREENPLAY—
On Saturday afternoons, my friends and I used to sneak into the
neighborhood theater and watch the serials of Flash Gordon and
Buck Rogers. During my teens, going to the movies became a pas-
sion, a form of entertainment, a distraction, and a topic of discus-
sion, as well as a place to make out and have fun. Occasionally, there
would be unforgettable moments—like watching Bogart and Bacall
in To Have and Have Not, or Walter Huston's mad dance as he
discovered gold in the mountains in The Treasure of the Sierra
Madre, or watching Brando stagger up the gangplank at the end of
On the Waterfront.
I attended Hollywood High School and was invited to join the
Athenians, one of the many clubs whose members hung out to-
gether during high school. A short time after graduation, one of my
best friends, Frank Mazzola, also a member of the Athenians, met
James Dean and formed a strong relationship with him. Frank in-
troduced Dean to what a high school "club" was like during this pe-
riod (by today's standards it would probably be referred to as a
gang). Director Nicholas Ray and James Dean chose Frank to be the
"gang" consultant in Rebel Without a Cause and to play the part of
Crunch in the movie, so the Athenians became the model of the
club/gang in Rebel Without a Cause. Occasionally Dean would come
with us when we strolled down Hollywood Boulevard on a Saturday
ι looking for trouble. We were the so-called tough kids, never
backing down from anything, whether it was a dare or a fight. We
managed to get into a lot of trouble.
Dean loved hearing about our "adventures" and would continu-
ally pump us for details. When we pulled some wild stunt, whatever
it was, he wanted to know how it started, what we were thinking,
how it felt. Actors' questions.
It was only after Rebel Without a Cause was released and stormed
the world that I became aware of how significant our contribution
to the movie had been. The irony of Dean's having hung out with us
during that period had no real effect on me until after he died; only
then, when he became an icon of our generation, did I begin to
grasp the significance of what we had contributed.
It was Mazzola who convinced me to take an acting class, which
ultimately transformed my life; it was one of those moments that
— INTRODUCTION— 5
impact a series of other moments and led me to the path I'm still
following to this κ. My family—aunts and uncles (my parents had
died several years earlier)—wanted me to be a "professional per-
son," meaning a doctor, lawyer, or dentist. I had been working part-
time at Mount Sinai Hospital and I liked the drama and pace of
emergency room medicine, so I entertained thoughts about becom-
ing a doctor. I enrolled at the University of California, packed up the
few belongings I had, and drove to Berkeley. It was August 1959.
Berkeley at the dawn of the '60s was an active crucible of re-
volt and unrest; banners, slogans, and leaflets were everywhere.
Castro's rebel force had just overthrown Batista, and signs were
everywhere, ranging from "Cuba Libre" and "Time for the Revo-
lution" to "Free Speech," "Abolish ROTC," "Equal Rights for Every-
one," and "Socialism for All, & All for Socialism." Telegraph Avenue,
the main street leading onto campus, was always lined with a color-
ful display of banners and leaflets. Protest rallies were held almost
every κ, and when I'd stop to listen, FBI agents, trying to be
inconspicuous in their shirts and ties, would be taking pictures of
everyone. It was a joke.
It didn't take long for me to be swept up in the activities personi-
fying the fervid issues of the time. Like so many others of my gen-
eration, I was influenced and inspired by the "beats"—Kerouac,
Ginsberg, Gregory Corso: the poet/saints who were blazing a trail of
rebellion and revolution. Inspired by their voices and their lives, I,
too, wanted to ride the waves of change. It wasn't too long before
the campus exploded into a political frenzy initiated by Mario Savio
and the Free Speech Movement.
It was during my second semester at Berkeley that I auditioned
for, and was cast as, Woyzeck in the German Expressionist drama
Woyzeck, by Georg Biichner. It was while I was performing Woyzeck
that I met the great French film director Jean Renoir.
My relationship with Renoir literally changed my life. I've
learned there are two or three times during a lifetime when some-
thing happens that alters the course of that life. We meet someone,
go somewhere, or do something we've never done before, and those
moments are the possibilities that guide us to where we're supposed
to go and what we're supposed to do with our lives.
6 —SCREENPLAY—
People say I was extremely fortunate to be working with Renoir,
that it was a chance and fortuitous accident of being in the right
place at the right time. That's true. But over the years, I've learned
not to believe too much in luck or accidents; I think everything hap-
pens for a reason. There's something to be learned from every mo-
ment, every experience we encounter during the brief time we
spend on this planet. Call it fate, call it destiny, call it what you will;
it really doesn't matter.
I auditioned for the world premiere of Renoir's play Carola, and
was cast in the third lead, playing the part of Campan, the stage
manager of a theater in Paris during the Nazi occupation in the last
days of World War II. For almost a year, I sat at Renoir's feet, watch-
ing and learning about movies through his eyes. He was always
commenting on film, his opinions vocal and fervent about every-
thing he saw or wrote, either as an artist, a person, or a humanitar-
ian. And he was all of these. Being in his presence was an inspiration,
a major life lesson, a joy, a privilege, as well as a great learning expe-
rience. Though movies had always been a major part of my life, it
was only during the time I spent with Renoir that I turned my focus
to film, the η way a plant turns toward the sun. Suddenly, I saw
movies in a whole new light, as an art form to study and learn, seek-
ing in the story and images an expression and understanding of life.
My love for the movies has fed and nourished me ever since.
"Qu est-ce que le cinéma?" is the question Renoir always used
to ask before he showed us one of his films. "What is film?" He used to
say movies are more than mere flashing images on the screen: "They
are an art form that becomes larger than life." What can I say about
Jean Renoir? He was a man like any other, but what separated him,
at least in my mind, was his great heart; he was open, friendly, a man
of great intelligence, wisdom, and wit who seemed to influence the
lives of everyone he touched. The son of the great Impressionistic
painter Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Jean, too, had the great gift of sight.
Renoir taught me about film, mentored me in the art of visually
telling a story, and imparted the gift of insight. He showed me the
door, then held it open as I walked through. I've never looked back.
Renoir hated the cliché. He would quote his father about
bringing an idea into existence. "If you paint the leaf on a tree
— INTRODUCTION— 7
without using a model," Renoir told us the great Impressionistic
painter once said, "your imagination will only supply you with a few
leaves; but Nature offers you millions, all on the η tree. No two
leaves are exactly the η. The artist who paints only what is in his
mind must very soon repeat himself." If you look at Renoir's great
paintings, you'll see what he meant. No two leaves, no two flowers,
no two people are ever painted in the η way. It's the η with
his son's films: Grand Illusion, Rules of the Game (considered two of
the greatest films ever made), The Golden Coach, Picnic on the Grass,
and many more. Renoir told me he "painted with light," the η
way his father painted with oils. Jean Renoir was an artist who dis-
covered the cinema in the η way his father "discovered" Im-
pressionism. "Art," he said, "should offer the viewer the chance of
merging with the creator."
Sitting in a movie theater watching those flickering images flut-
ter across the screen is like witnessing the vast range of human ex-
perience: from the ⊨ ⊟ of The Lord of the Rings: The
Fellowship of the Ring to The Royal Tenenbaums; from The Matrix to
Close Encounters of the Third Kind; from the first few shots of Bridge
on the River Kwai to capturing the scope of human history as a
wooden club thrown into the air merges into a spacecraft in
Stanley Kubrick's 2007. Thousands of years and the evolution of
humankind condensed into the poetry of two pieces of film; it is a
moment of magic and wonder, mystery and awe. Such is the power
of film.
For the past few decades, as I've traveled and lectured around
the world on the art and craft of screenwriting, I have watched
the style of screenwriting evolve into a more visual medium. As
I mentioned, we're seeing certain techniques of the novel, like
stream of consciousness and chapter headings, ⊤ to seep
into the modern screenplay. (Kill Bill I and //, The Hours, The
Royal Tenenbaums, American Beauty, The Bourne Supremacy, The
Manchurian Candidate, and Cold Mountain are just a few exam-
ples.) It's clear that a whole new computer-savvy generation, who
grew up with interactive software, digital storytelling, and editing
applications sees things in a more visual way and is thus able to ex-
press it in a more cinematic style.
8 —SCREENPLAY—
But when all is said and done, the principles of screenwriting
don't change; they are the η no matter in what time or place or
era we live. Great films are timeless—they embody and capture the
times in which they were made; the human condition is the η
now as it was then.
My purpose in writing Screenplay was to explore the craft of
screenwriting and illustrate the foundations of dramatic structure.
When you want to write a screenplay, there are two aspects you have
to deal with. One is the preparation required to write it: the re-
search, thinking time, character work, and laying out of the struc-
tural dynamic. The other is the execution, the actual writing of it,
laying out the visual images and capturing the ⊘. The hardest
thing about writing is knowing what to write. That was true when I
first wrote the book, and it is now.
This is not a "how-to" book; I can't teach anybody how to write a
screenplay. People teach themselves the craft of screenwriting. All I
can do is show them what they have to do to write a successful
screenplay. So, I call this a what-to book, meaning if you have an
idea for a screenplay, and you don't know what to do or how to do
it, I can show you.
As a writer-producer for David L. Wolper Productions, a freelance
screenwriter, and head of the story department at Cinemobile
Systems, I have spent years writing and reading screenplays. At Cine-
mobile alone, I read and synopsized more than two thousand screen-
plays in a little over two years. And of all those two thousand
screenplays, I only found forty to submit to our financial partners for
possible film production.
Why so few? Because ninety-nine out of a hundred screenplays I
read weren't good enough to invest millions of dollars in. Put an-
other way, only one out of a hundred screenplays I read was good
enough to consider for film production. And at Cinemobile, our
job was making movies. In one year alone, we were directly involved
in the production of some 119 motion pictures, ranging from The
Godfather to Jeremiah Johnson to Deliverance to Alice Doesn't Live
Here Anymore to American Graffiti.
At that time, in the early '70s, Cinemobile was a portable loca-
tion facility that literally revolutionized film production. Filmmakers
— INTRODUCTION— 9
no longer had to rely on a supply caravan to carry cast, crew, and
equipment to whatever location they were using. Basically, the
Cinemobile was a Greyhound bus with an eight-wheel-drive, so we
could store equipment in the luggage area, then transport cast and
crew to the top of a mountain, shoot three to eight pages of script
each κ, and return home. My boss, Fouad Said, the creator of the
Cinemobile, became so successful that he decided to make his own
movies, so he went out and raised several million dollars in a few
weeks, with a revolving fund of many million more, if needed.
Pretty soon everybody in Hollywood was sending him screenplays.
Thousands of scripts came in, from stars and directors, from stu-
dios and producers, from the known and the unknown.
That's when I was given the opportunity to read the submitted
screenplays and evaluate them in terms of cost, quality, and proba-
ble budget. My job, as I was constantly reminded, was to "find mate-
rial" for our three financial partners: the United Artists Theatre
Group; the Hemdale Film Distribution Company, headquartered in
London; and the Taft Broadcasting Company, parent company of
Cinemobile.
So I began reading screenplays. As a screenwriter taking a
much-needed break from more than seven years of freelance
writing (I had written nine screenplays: two were produced, four
were optioned, and three nothing ever happened with), my job at
Cinemobile gave me a totally new perspective on writing a screen-
play. It was a tremendous opportunity, a formidable challenge, and
a dynamic learning experience.
I kept asking myself what made the screenplays I recommended
better than the others. At first I didn't have any answers, but I held it
in my consciousness and thought about it a long time.
Every θ, when I arrived at work, there would be a stack of
screenplays on my desk, waiting. No matter what I did, no matter
how fast I read or how many scripts I skimmed, skipped, or tossed,
one solid fact always remained: The size of the pile never changed. I
knew I could never get through the pile.
Reading a screenplay is a unique experience. It's not like reading
a novel, play, or article in the Sunday paper. When I first started
reading, I read the words on the page slowly, drinking in all the
10 —SCREENPLAY —
visual descriptions, character nuances, and dramatic situations. But
that didn't work for me. I found it too easy to get caught up in the
writer's words and style. I learned that most of the scripts that read
well—meaning they featured lovely sentences, stylish and literate
prose, and beautiful ⊘—usually didn't work. While they
might read like liquid honey flowing across the page, the overall
feeling was that of reading a short story or a strong journalistic
piece in a magazine like Vanity Fair or Esquire. But that's not what
makes a good screenplay.
I started out wanting to read and "do coverage" on—synopsize—
three screenplays a κ. I found I could read two scripts without a
problem, but when I got to the third, the words, characters, and ac-
tions all seemed to congeal into some kind of amorphous goo of
plotlines concerning the FBI and CIA, punctuated with bank heists,
murders, and car chases, with a lot of wet kisses and naked flesh
thrown in for local color. At two or three in the afternoon, after a
heavy lunch and maybe a little too much wine, it was difficult to
keep my attention focused on the action or nuances of character
and story. So, after a few months on the job, I usually found myself
closing my office door, propping my feet up on the desk, turning off
the phones, leaning back in the chair with a script on my chest, and
taking a catnap.
I must have read more than a hundred screenplays before I real-
ized that I didn't know what I was doing. What was I looking for?
What made a screenplay good or bad? I could tell whether I liked it
or not, yes, but what were the elements that made it a good screen-
play? It had to be more than a string of clever bits and smart dia-
logue laced together in a series of beautiful pictures. Was it the ⊗,
the characters, or the visual arena where the action took place that
made it a good screenplay? Was it the visual style of writing or the
cleverness of the ⊘? If I didn't know the answers to that, then
how could I answer the question I was repeatedly being asked by
agents, writers, producers, and directors: What was I looking for?
That's when I understood that the real question for me was, How do
I read a screenplay? I knew how to write a screenplay, and I certainly
knew what I liked or disliked when I went to the movies, but how
did I apply that to the reading of a screenplay?
— INTRODUCTION— 11
The more I thought about it, the clearer I became. What I was
looking for, I soon realized, was a style that exploded off the page,
exhibiting the kind of raw energy found in scripts like Chinatown,
Taxi Driver, The Godfather, and American Graffiti. As the stack of
scripts on my desk grew higher and higher, I felt very much like Jay
Gatsby at the end of The Great Gatsby, E Scott Fitzgerald's classic
novel. At the end of the book, Nick, the narrator, recalls how Gatsby
used to stand looking out over the water at the image of the green
light, beckoning him to past memories of unrequited love. Gatsby
was a man who believed in the past, a man who believed that if he
had enough wealth and power, he could turn back time and re-
create it. It was that dream that spurred him as a young man to cross
over the tracks, searching for love and wealth, searching for the expec-
tations and desires of the past that he hoped would become the future.
The green light.
I thought a lot about Gatsby and the green light as I struggled
through those piles of screenplays searching for "the good read,"
that special and unique screenplay that would be "the one" to make
it through the gauntlet of studios, executives, stars, financial wizards,
and egos and finally end up on that monster screen in a darkened
theater.
It was just about that time that I was given the opportunity to
teach a screenwriting class at the Sherwood Oaks Experimental
College in Hollywood. At that time in the '70s, Sherwood Oaks was
a professional school taught by professionals. It was the kind of
school where Paul Newman, Dustin Hoffman, and Lucille Ball gave
acting seminars; where Tony Bill taught a producing seminar; where
Martin Scorsese, Robert Altman, and Alan Pakula gave directing
seminars; where John Alonzo and Vilmos Zsigmond, two of the
finest cinematographers in the world, taught classes in cinematog-
raphy. It was a school where producers, professional production
managers, cameramen, film editors, writers, directors, and script
supervisors all came to teach their craft. It was the most unique film
school in the country.
I had never taught a screenwriting class before, so I had to delve
into my own writing and reading experience to evolve my basic ma-
terial.
12 —SCREENPLAY —
What is a good screenplay? I kept asking myself. And pretty soon
I started getting some answers. When you read a good screen-
play, you know it—it's evident from page one, word one. The style,
the way the words are laid out on the page, the way the story is set
up, the grasp of dramatic situation, the introduction of the main
character, the basic premise or problem of the screenplay—it's all
set up in the first few pages of the script: Chinatown, Five Easy
Pieces, The Godfather, The French Connection, Shampoo, and All the
President's Men are all perfect examples.
A screenplay, I soon realized, is a story told with pictures. It's like
a noun; it has a subject, and is usually about a person, or persons, in
a place, or places, doing his, or her, or their "thing." The person is the
main character and doing his/her thing is the action. Out of that un-
derstanding, I saw that any good screenplay has certain conceptual
components common to the screenplay form.
These elements are expressed dramatically within a structure
that has a definite ⊤, ⊦, and end, though not necessar-
ily in that order. When I reexamined the forty screenplays submit-
ted to our financial partners—including The Godfather, American
Graffiti, The Wind and the Lion, Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore,
and others—I realized they all contained these basic concepts, re-
gardless of how they were cinematically executed.
I began teaching this conceptual approach to writing the screen-
play. If the aspiring writer knows what a screenplay is, what it looks
like, I reasoned, it can be used as a guide or blueprint to point out
the path through the forest.
I've now been teaching this approach to screenwriting for over
twenty-five years. It's an effective and comprehensive approach to
the writing of a screenplay and the art of visual storytelling. My ma-
terial has evolved and been applied by thousands and thousands of
students all over the world. The principles in this book have been
totally embraced by the film industry. It's not uncommon for major
film studios and production companies to contractually stipulate
that a delivered screenplay must have a definite three-act structure
and be no longer than 2 hours and 8 minutes, or 128 pages, in
length. (There are always exceptions, of course.)
Many of my students have been very successful: Anna Hamilton
— INTRODUCTION— 13
Phelan wrote Mask in my workshop, then went on to write Gorillas
in the Mist; Laura Esquivel wrote Like Water for Chocolate; Carmen
Culver wrote The Thorn Birds; Janus Cercone wrote Leap of Faith;
Linda Elstad won the prestigious Humanitas Award for Divorce
Wars; and such prestigious filmmakers as James Cameron (Ter-
minator and Terminator 2: Judgment κ, Titanic), Ted Tally (The
Silence of the Lambs, The Juror), Alfonso and Carlos Cuarôn (Y Tu
Mama Tamhién, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban), Ken
Nolan (Black Hawk Down), David O. Russell (Three Kings, I Heart
Huckabees), and Tina Fey (Mean Girls), to name just a few, used the
material when they began their screenwriting careers.
At this writing, Screenplay has been reprinted nearly 40 times,
gone through several editions, and been translated into some 22
languages, along with several black market editions: first in Iran,
then in China, then Russia.
When I began thinking about revising this book, I quickly real-
ized that most of the films I had written about were from the '70s
and that I wanted to use more contemporary examples, movies
people might be more familiar with. But as I went back into the
book and saw the film examples I had originally used, I realized
that most of them are now considered classics of the American
cinema—films like Chinatown, Harold and Maude, Network, Three
Days of the Condor, and others. These films still hold up, on both an
entertainment and a teaching level. In most cases, the films are as
valid today as they were when they were made. Despite having some
dated attitudes, they continue to capture a particular moment in
time, a time of unrest, social revolution, and violence that mirrors
some of the antiwar sentiments prevalent today. The nightmare in
Iraq is very similar to the nightmare in Vietnam. What I see and un-
derstand now, in hindsight, is that the principles of screenwriting
that I delineated at the dawn of the '80s are just as relevant now as
they were then. Only the expression has changed.
This material is designed for everyone. Novelists, playwrights,
magazine editors, housewives, businessmen, doctors, actors, film
editors, commercial directors, secretaries, advertising executives,
and university professors—all have benefited from it.
My intention in this book is to enable you to sit down and write
14 —SCREENPLAY-
a screenplay from the position of choice, confidence, and security
that you know what you're doing. As I said earlier, the hardest thing
about writing is knowing what to write. When you complete this
book, you will know exactly what to do to write a professional
screenplay. Whether you do it or not is up to you.
Talent is God's gift; either you've got it or you don't. But writing
is a personal responsibility; either you do it or you don't.
What Is a
Screenplay?
"Suppose you're in your office. ... A pretty
stenographer you've seen before comes into
the room and you watch her. . . . She takes
off her gloves, opens her purse and dumps it
out on the table.... She has two dimes and
a nickel—and a cardboard match box. She
leaves the nickel on the desk, puts the two
dimes back into her purse and takes her
black gloves to the stove. . . . Just then your
telephone rings. The girl picks it up, says
hello—listens—and says deliberately into the
phone, "I've never owned a pair of black
gloves in my life." She hangs up ... and you
glance around very suddenly and see another
man in the office, watching every move the
girl makes . . . ."
"Go on," said Boxley smiling. "What hap-
pens?"
"I don't know," said Stahr. "I was just
making pictures."
—The Last Tycoon F.
Scott Fitzgerald
In the summer of 1937, F. Scott Fitzgerald, drinking far too much,
deeply in debt, and drowning in the suffocating well of despair,
moved to Hollywood seeking new beginnings, hoping to
nin reinvent himself by writing for the movies. The author of The
Ten Great Gatsby, Tender Is the ι, This Side of Paradise, and the
Las uncompleted The Last Tycoon, perhaps America's greatest
pu, novelist, was, as one friend put it, seeking redemption.
16 —SCREENPLAY—
During the two and a half years he spent in Hollywood, he took
the craft of screenwriting "very seriously," says one noted Fitzgerald
authority: "It's heartbreaking to see how much effort he put into it."
Fitzgerald approached every screenplay as if it were a novel and of-
ten wrote long backstories for each of the main characters before
putting one word of ⊘ down on paper.
Despite all the preparation he put into each assignment, he was
obsessed with finding the answer to a question that haunted him
continuously: What makes a good screenplay? Billy Wilder once
compared Fitzgerald to "a great sculptor who is hired to do a
plumbing job. He did not know how to connect the pipes so the wa-
ter could flow."
Throughout his Hollywood years, he was always trying to find
the "balance" between the words spoken and the pictures seen.
During this time, he received only one screen credit, adapting the
novel Three Comrades by Erich Maria Remarque (starring Robert
Taylor and Margaret Sullavan), but Joseph L. Mankiewicz eventually
rewrote his script. He worked on rewrites for several other movies,
including a disastrous week on Gone With the Wind (he was forbid-
den to use any words that did not appear in Margaret Mitchell's
novel), but after Three Comrades, all of his projects ended in fail-
ure. One, a script for Joan Crawford called Infidelity, was left un-
completed, canceled because it dealt with the ⊙ of adultery.
Fitzgerald died in 1941, working on his last, unfinished novel, The
Last Tycoon.
He died believing himself to be a failure.
I've always been intrigued by the journey of F. Scott Fitzgerald.
What resonates with me the most is that he was constantly search-
ing for the answer to what made a good screenplay. His overwhelm-
ing external circumstances—his wife Zelda's institutionalization,
his unmanageable debts and lifestyle, his excessive drinking—all fed
into his insecurities about the craft of screenwriting. And make no
mistake: Screenwriting is a craft, a craft that can be learned. Even
though he worked excessively hard, and was disciplined and re-
sponsible, he failed to achieve the results he was so desperately striv-
ing for.
Why?
— WHAT IS A SCREENPLAY?—
17
I don't think there's any one answer. But reading his books and
writings and letters from this period, it seems clear that he was
never exactly sure what a screenplay was; he always wondered
whether he was "doing it right," whether there were certain rules he
had to follow in order to write a successful screenplay.
When I was studying at the University of California, Berkeley, as
an English lit major, I read the first and second editions of Tender Is
the ι for one of my classes. It is the story of a psychiatrist who
marries one of his patients, who, as she slowly recovers, exhausts his
vitality until he is "a man used up." The book, the last one Fitzgerald
completed, was considered technically faulty and was commercially
unsuccessful.
In the first edition of the novel, Book I is written from the point
of view of Rosemary Hoyt, a young actress who shares her obser-
vations about meeting the circle that surrounds Dick and Nicole
Diver. Rosemary is on the beach at Cap d'Antibes on the French
Riviera, watching the Divers enjoying an outing on the sand. As she
watches, she sees them as a beautiful couple who appear, at least
from her point of view, to have everything going for them. They are,
she thinks, the ideal couple. Rich, beautiful, intelligent, they look to
be the embodiment of what everyone wants for himself or herself.
But the second book of the novel focuses on the life of Dick and
Nicole, and we learn that what we saw through Rosemary's eyes was
only the relationship they showed to the world; it was not really
true. The Divers have major problems, which drain them emotion-
ally and spiritually, and ultimately destroy them.
When the first edition of Tender Is the ι was published, sales
were poor, and Fitzgerald thought he had probably been drinking
too much and might have compromised his vision. But from his
Hollywood experience, he came to believe he did not introduce his
main characters early enough. "Its great fault," Fitzgerald wrote of
Tender Is the ι to his editor, Maxwell Perkins, "is that the true
⊤—the young psychiatrist in Switzerland—is tucked away
in the ⊦ of the book." He decided that when the second edi-
tion was printed, he would interchange the first section with the
second and open the novel with Dick Diver in wartime Switzerland
in order to explain the mystery about the Divers' courtship and
18 —SCREENPLAY —
marriage. So he opened the book focusing on the main character,
Dick Diver. But that didn't work either, and Fitzgerald was crushed.
The book was financially unsuccessful until many years ε, when
Fitzgerald's genius was finally acknowledged.
What strikes me so vividly is what Fitzgerald didn't see; his open-
ing section focusing on how Rosemary saw the Divers was more
cinematic than novelistic. It's a great cinematic ⊨, setting up
the characters as others see them, like an establishing shot; in this
first edition, Fitzgerald was showing us how this model couple
looked to the world, beautiful and rich, seeming to have everything.
How we look to the outside world, of course, is a lot different from
who we really are behind closed doors. My personal feeling is that it
was Fitzgerald's insecurity about the craft of screenwriting that
drove him to change that great ⊨.
F. Scott Fitzgerald was an artist literally caught between two
worlds, caught between his genius as a writer and his self-doubt and
inability to express that genius in screenplay form.
Screenwriting is a definite craft, a definite art. Over the years, I've
read thousands upon thousands of screenplays, and I always look
for certain things. First, how does it look on the page? Is there plenty
of white space, or are the paragraphs dense, too thick, the ⊘
too long? Or is the reverse true: Is the ⊕ description too thin, the
⊘ too sparse? And this is before I read one word; this is just
what it "looks" like on the page. You'd be surprised how many deci-
sions are made in Hollywood by the way a screenplay looks—you
can tell whether it's been written by a professional or by someone
who's still aspiring to be a professional.
Everybody is writing screenplays, from the waiter at your fa-
vorite bar or restaurant to the limo driver, the doctor, the lawyer, or
the barista serving up the White Chocolate Dream Latte at the local
Coffee Bean. Last year, more than seventy-five thousand screenplays
were registered at the Writers Guild of America, West and East, and
out of that number maybe four or five hundred scripts were actually
produced.
What makes one screenplay better than another? There are
many answers, of course, because each screenplay is unique. But if
you want to sit down and spend six months to a year writing a
— WHAT IS A SCREENPLAY?— 19
screenplay, you first have to know what a screenplay is—what its na-
ture is.
What is a screenplay? Is it a guide, or an outline, for a movie? A
blueprint, or a diagram? Or maybe it's a series of images, scenes, and
sequences strung together with ⊘ and description, like pearls
on a strand? Perhaps it's simply the landscape of a dream?
Well, for one thing, a screenplay is not a novel, and it's most cer-
tainly not a play. If you look at a novel and try to define its funda-
mental nature, you'll see that the dramatic action, the story line,
usually takes place inside the head of the main character. We see the
story line unfold through the eyes of the character, through his/her
point of view. We are privy to the character's thoughts, feelings,
emotions, words, actions, memories, dreams, hopes, ambitions,
opinions, and more. The character and reader go through the ac-
tion together, sharing in the drama and emotion of the story. We
know how they act, feel, react, and figure things out. If other charac-
ters appear and are brought into the ⊚ line of action, then
the story embraces their point of view, but the main thrust of the
story line always returns to the main character. The main character
is who the story is about. In a novel the action takes place inside the
character's head, within the mindscape of dramatic action.
A play is different. The action, or story line, occurs onstage, un-
der the proscenium arch, and the audience becomes the fourth wall,
eavesdropping on the lives of the characters, what they think and
feel and say. They talk about their hopes and dreams, past and fu-
ture plans, discuss their needs and desires, fears and conflicts. In this
case, the action of the play occurs within the language of dramatic
action; it is spoken in words that describe feelings, actions, and
emotions.
A screenplay is different. Movies are different. Film is a visual
medium that dramatizes a basic story line; it deals in pictures, im-
ages, bits and pieces of film: We see a clock ticking, a window open-
ing, a person in the distance leaning over a balcony, smoking; in the
background we hear a phone ringing, a baby crying, a dog barking
as we see two people laughing as their car pulls away from the curb.
"Just making pictures." The nature of the screenplay deals in pic-
tures, and if we wanted to define it, we could say that a screenplay is
20 —SCREENPLAY —
a story told with pictures, in ⊘ and description, and placed
within the context of dramatic structure.
That is its essential nature, just like a rock is hard and water's
wet.
Because a screenplay is a story told with pictures, we can ask
ourselves, what do all stories have in common? They have a begin-
ning, ⊦, and an end, not necessarily in that order, as Jean-Luc
Godard says. Screenplays have a basic linear structure that creates
the form of the screenplay because it holds all the individual ele-
ments, or pieces, of the story line in place.
To understand the principle of structure, it's important to start
with the word itself. The root of structure, struct, has two defini-
tions that are relevant. The first définition means "to build" or "to
put something together," like a building or car. The second defini-
tion is "the relationship between the parts and the whole."
The parts and the whole. This is an important distinction. What
is the relationship between the parts and the whole? How do you
separate one from the other? If you take the game of chess, for ex-
ample, the game itself is a whole composed of four parts: ( 1 ) the
pieces—the queen, king, bishop, pawns, knights, etc.; (2) the
player(s), because someone has to play the game of chess, either
against another person or a computer; (3) the board, because you
can't play chess without a board, and (4) the rules, because you can't
play a chess game unless you play by the rules. Those four parts—
the pieces, the player(s), the board, and the rules—are integrated
into the whole, and the result is a game of chess. It is the relation-
ship between these parts and the whole that determines the game.
The η relationship holds true in a story. A story is the whole,
and the elements that make up the story—the action, characters,
conflicts, scenes, sequences, ⊘, action, Acts I, II, and III, inci-
dents, episodes, events, music, locations, etc.—are the parts, and this
relationship between the parts and the whole make up the story.
Good structure is like the relationship between an ice cube and
water. An ice cube has a definite crystalline structure, and water has
a definite molecular structure. But when the ice cube melts into
water, how can you separate the molecules of ice from the molecules
— WHAT IS A SCREENPLAY?— 21
of water? Structure is like gravity: It is the glue that holds the story in
place; it is the base, the foundation, the spine, the skeleton of the
story. And it is this relationship between the parts and the whole that
holds the screenplay together. It's what makes it what it is.
It is the paradigm of dramatic structure.
A paradigm is a model, example, or conceptual scheme. The para-
digm of a table, for example, is a top with four legs. Within the
paradigm, we can have a low table, high table, narrow table, or wide
table; we can have a round table, square table, rectangular table, or
octagonal table; we can have a glass table, wood table, plastic table,
wrought-iron table, or whatever, and the paradigm doesn't change—
it remains what it is, a top with four legs. Just the way a suitcase re-
mains a suitcase; it doesn't matter how big or small, or what the
shape is; it is what it is.
If we wanted to take a screenplay and hang it on the wall like a
painting, this is what it would look like:
⊤ ⊦ End
Act I Act II Act III
Vi 8
l
3pp. 1-30 spp. 30-90 =pp. 90-120
Set-Up Confrontation ⊡
f ?
⊗ Point 1 ⊗ Point 2
This is the paradigm of a screenplay. Here's how it's broken
down:
ACT I IS THE SET-UP
If a screenplay is a story told with pictures, then what do all stories
have in common? A ⊤, ⊦, and end, though not neces-
sarily, as mentioned, in that order; it is a story told in pictures, in
22 —SCREENPLAY—
⊘ and description, and placed within the context of dramatic
structure.
Aristotle talked about the three unities of dramatic action: time,
place, and action. The normal Hollywood film is approximately two
hours long, or 120 minutes; foreign films tend to be a little shorter,
though that's changing as we bridge the language of interna-
tional film. But in most cases, films are approximately two hours in
length, give or take a few minutes. This is a standard length, and to-
κ, when a contract is written in Hollywood between the film-
maker and production company, it states that when the movie is
delivered, it will be no longer than 2 hours and 8 minutes. That's ap-
proximately 128 pages of screenplay. Why? Because it's an economic
decision that has evolved over the years. At this writing, it costs ap-
proximately $10,000 to $12,000 per minute (and getting higher and
higher every year) to shoot a Hollywood studio film. Second, a
two-hour movie has a definite advantage in the theaters simply be-
cause you can get in more viewings of the movie per κ. More
screenings mean more money; more theaters mean more screen-
ings, which means more money will be made. Movies are show
business, after all, and with the cost of moviemaking being so high,
and getting higher as our technology evolves, today it's really more
business than show.
The way it breaks down is this: One page of screenplay is approx-
imately one minute of screen time. It doesn't matter whether the
script is all action, all ⊘, or any combination of the two—
generally speaking, a page of screenplay equals a minute of screen
time. It's a good rule of thumb to follow. There are exceptions to
this, of course. The script of Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the
Ring is only 118 pages, but the movie is more than three hours long.
Act I, the ⊤, is a unit of dramatic action that is approxi-
mately twenty or thirty pages long and is held together with the dra-
matic context known as the Set- Up. Context is the space that holds
something in place—in this case, the content. For example, the
space inside a glass is the context; it holds the content in place—
whether it's water, beer, milk, coffee, tea, or juice. If we want to get
creative, a glass can also hold raisins, trail mix, nuts, grapes, etc.—
— WHAT IS A SCREENPLAY?— 23
but the space inside doesn't change The context is what holds the
content in place.
In this unit of dramatic action, Act I, the screenwriter sets up the
story, establishes character, launches the dramatic premise (what
the story is about), illustrates the situation (the circumstances sur-
rounding the action), and creates the relationships between the
main character and the other characters who inhabit the landscape
of his or her world. As a writer you've only got about ten minutes to
establish this, because the audience members can usually deter-
mine, either consciously or unconsciously, whether they do or don't
like the movie by that time. If they don't know what's going on and
the ⊨ is vague or boring, their concentration and focus will
falter and start wandering.
Check it out. The next time you go to a movie, do a little exercise:
Find out how long it takes you to make a decision about whether
you like the film or not. A good indication is if you start thinking
about getting something from the refreshment stand or find yourself
shifting in your seat; if that happens, the chances are the filmmaker
has lost you as a viewer. Ten minutes is ten pages of screenplay. I can-
not emphasize enough that this first ten-page unit of dramatic ac-
tion is the most important part of the screenplay.
In American Beauty (Alan Ball), after the brief ⊨ video
⊕ of the daughter Jane (Thora Birch) and her boyfriend, Ricky
(Wes Bentley), we see the street where Lester Burnham (Kevin
Spacey) lives, and hear his first words in ⊞-over: "My name is
Lester Burnham. I'm forty-two years old. In less than a year, I'll be
dead _ In a way, I'm dead already." Then we see Lester as he begins
his κ. He wakes up and jerks off (the high point of his κ, he
adds), and then we see his relationship with his family. All this is set
up and established within the first few pages, and we learn that: "My
wife and daughter think I'm this gigantic loser, and they're right __I
have lost something. I don't know what it was, but I have lost some
thing_ I feel sedated___But you know, it's never too late to get it
back." And that lets us know what the story is all about: Lester regain-
ing the life he has lost or given up, and becoming whole and complete
again as a person. Within the first few pages of the screenplay we
know the main character, the dramatic premise, and the situation.
24 —SCREENPLAY—
In Chinatown (Robert Towne), we learn on page one that Jake
Gittes (Jack Nicholson), the main character, is a sleazy private detec-
tive specializing in "discreet investigation." We see this when he
shows Curly (Burt Young) pictures of his wife having sex in the park.
We also see that Gittes has a certain flair for this type of investiga-
tion. A few pages ε, we are introduced to a certain Mrs. Mulwray
(Diane Ladd), who wants to hire Jake Gittes to find out "who my
husband is having an affair with." That is the dramatic premise of
the film, because the answer to that question is what leads us into the
story. The dramatic premise is what the screenplay is about; it pro-
vides the dramatic thrust that drives the story to its ⊩.
In Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (Fran Walsh,
Philippa Boyens, and Peter Jackson, based on the book by J. R. R.
Tolkien), we learn in the first six pages of the screenplay the history
of the ring and its magnetic attraction. It's a beautiful ⊨ that
sets up all three stories. It also sets up the story as Gandalf arrives in
the Shire. We meet Frodo (Elijah Wood), Bilbo Baggins (Ian Holm),
Sam (Sean Astin), and the others, see how they live, and are intro-
duced to the ring. We also get an overview of ⊦ Earth. This
⊨ sets up the rest of the Fellowship, including the two sequels,
The Two Towers and Return of the King.
In Witness (Earl Wallace and William Kelley), the first ten pages
reveal the world of the Amish in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania.
The script opens with the funeral of Rachel's (Kelly McGillis's) hus-
band, then we follow her to Philadelphia, where her child witnesses
the murder of an undercover cop, and that in turn leads to her rela-
tionship with the main character, John Book (Harrison Ford), an-
other cop. The entire ⊫ is designed to reveal the dramatic
premise and situation and to set up the relationship between an
Amish woman and a tough Philadelphia cop.
ACT II IS CONFRONTATION
Act II is a unit of dramatic action approximately sixty pages
long, and goes from the end of Act I, anywhere from pages 20 to 30,
— WHAT IS A SCREENPLAY?— 25
to the end of Act II, approximately pages 85 to 90, and is held to-
gether with the dramatic context known as Confrontation. During
this ⊪ the main character encounters obstacle after obsta-
cle that keeps him/her from achieving his/her dramatic need,
which is defined as what the character wants to win, gain, get, or
achieve during the course of the screenplay. If you know your charac-
ter's dramatic need, you can create obstacles to it and then your
story becomes your character, overcoming obstacle after obstacle
to achieve his/her dramatic need.
In Cold Mountain, Inman (Jude Law) struggles over two hun-
dred miles to return home to Cold Mountain. This dramatic need is
both internal and external: It is Inman's longing to return to a place
in his heart that existed prior to the war, and Cold Mountain is also
the place where he lived and grew up, as well as where his loved one,
Ada (Nicole Kidman), resides. His desire, his dramatic need to re-
turn home, is fraught with obstacle after obstacle, and still he per-
sists, only to fail at the end. Literally, the entire movie is overcoming
the obstacles of war and the internal will to survive.
In Chinatown, a detective story, Act II deals with Jake Gittes's
collisions with people who try to keep him from finding out who's
responsible for the murder of Hollis Mulwray and who's behind the
water scandal. The obstacles that Gittes encounters and overcomes
dictate the dramatic action of the story. Look at The Fugitive. The
entire story is driven by the main character's dramatic need to bring
his wife's killer to justice. Act II is where your character has to deal
with surviving the obstacles that you put in front of him or her.
What is it that drives him or her forward through the action? What
does your main character want? What is his or her dramatic need?
In Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers, the entire film involves Frodo,
Sam, and the Fellowship's confronting and managing to overcome
obstacle after obstacle, leading to the climactic battle at Helms
Deep.
All drama is ⊖. Without ⊖, you have no action; with-
out action, you have no character; without character, you have no
story; and without story, you have no screenplay.
26 —SCREENPLAY—
ACT III IS ⊡
Act III is a unit of dramatic action approximately twenty to thirty
pages long and goes from the end of Act II, approximately pages 85
to 90, to the end of the screenplay. It is held together with the dra-
matic context known as ⊡. I think it's important to remem-
ber that ⊡ does not mean ⊥; ⊡ means solution.
What is the solution of your screenplay? Does your main character
live or die? Succeed or fail? Get married or not? Win the race or not?
Win the election or not? Escape safely or not? Leave her husband or
not? Return home safely or not? Act III is that unit of action that re-
solves the story. It is not the ⊥; the ⊥ is that specific ⊕
or shot or ⊟ that ends the script.
⊤, ⊦, and end; Act I, Act II, Act III. Set-Up,
Confrontation, ⊡—these parts make up the whole. It is the
relationship between these parts that determines the whole.
But this brings up another question: If these parts make up the
whole, the screenplay, how do you get from Act I, the Set-Up, to
Act II, the Confrontation? And how do you get from Act II to Act III,
7
the ⊡. The answer is to create a ⊗ Point at the end of both
Act I and Act II.
A ⊗ Point is defined as any incident, episode, or event that
hooks into the action and spins it around in another direction—in
this case, ⊗ Point I moves the action forward into Act II and ⊗
Point II moves the action into Act III. ⊗ Point I occurs at the end
of Act I, anywhere from pages 20 to 25 or 30.
A ⊗ Point is always a function of the main character. In Lord of
the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, ⊗ Point I is the ⊤
of the journey, that moment when Frodo and Sam leave the Shire
and set out on their adventure through ⊦ Earth. ⊗ Point II
is when the Fellowship reaches Lothlorien, and Galadriel (Cate
Blanchett) reveals to Frodo the fate of ⊦ Earth should the ring
not reach Mount Doom. Frodo becomes the reluctant hero, in
much the η way that Neo (Keanu Reeves) in The Matrix (Larry
and Andy Wachowski), accepts his mantle of responsibility at ⊗
Point 1: his journey as "The One" begins at ⊗ Point I. It is the true
⊤ of that story.
— WHAT IS A SCREENPLAY?— 27
If we take a look at The Matrix, we can see ⊗ Points I and II
clearly delineated. In ⊗ Point I, Neo chooses the Red Pill, and
Act II begins when he is literally reborn; at ⊗ Point II, Neo and
Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) rescue Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne),
and only then does Neo accept the truth that he is "The One."
⊗ Points serve an essential purpose in the screenplay; they are
a major story progression and keep the story line anchored in place.
In Chinatown, Jake Gittes is hired by the wife of a prominent man to
find out if her husband is having an affair. Gittes follows him and
sees him with a young girl. That's the Set-Up. ⊗ Point I occurs af-
ter the newspaper story is released claiming Mr. Mulwray has been
caught in a "love nest." That's when the real Mrs. Mulwray shows up
with her attorney and threatens to sue Jake Gittes and have his li-
cense revoked. If she is the real Mrs. Mulwray, who was the woman
who hired Jake Gittes? And why did she hire him? And who hired
7
the phony Mrs. Mulwray? And why . The arrival of the real Mrs.
Mulwray is what hooks into the action and spins it around in an-
other direction—in this case, Act II. It is story progression; Jake
Gittes must find out who set him up, and why. The answer is the rest
of the movie.
In Cold Mountain, as Inman recovers from his wounds he re-
ceives a letter from Ada. We hear her say, in ⊞-over, "Come back
to me. Come back to me is my request." Inman nods; his decision is
made: He will desert the Confederate Army and return home to Ada
and Cold Mountain, return to the place in his heart.
⊗ Points do not have to be big, dynamic scenes or sequences;
they can be quiet scenes in which a decision is made, such as
Inman's, or when Frodo and Sam leave the Shire. Take the ⊟
in American Beauty where Lester Burnham and his wife are at the
high school basketball game and see their daughter's friend Angela
(Mena Suvari) performing at halftime. It moves the story forward
and sets Lester's emotional journey of liberation in motion. In The
Matrix, ⊗ Point I is where Neo is offered the choice of the Red Pill
or the Blue Pill. He chooses the Red Pill, and this truly is the begin-
ning of the story. All of Act I has set up the elements and led Neo to
this moment.
Remember, the paradigm is the form of a screenplay, what it
28 —SCREENPLAY —
looks like. Any page numbers I reference are only a guideline to in-
dicate approximately where the story progresses to the next level,
not how it progresses. How you do that is up to you. It is the form of
the screenplay that is important, not the page numbers where ⊗
Points occur. There may be many ⊗ Points during the course of
the story line; I only focus on ⊗ Points I and II because these two
events are the anchoring moments that become the foundation of
the dramatic structure in the screenplay.
⊗ Point II is really the η as ⊗ Point I; it is the way to
move the story forward, from Act II to Act III. It is a story progres-
sion. As mentioned, it usually occurs anywhere between pages 80 or
90 of the screenplay. In Chinatown, ⊗ Point II occurs when Jake
Gittes finds a pair of horn-rim glasses in the pond where Hollis
Mulwray was murdered, and knows the glasses belonged either to
Mulwray or to the person who killed him. This leads us to the
⊡ of the story.
In Cold Mountain, ⊗ Point II is a quiet moment; after Inman
meets the woman Sara (Natalie Portman) and rescues her and her
baby from the Northerners, he reaches a point where he can see the
Blue Ridge Mountains. The script reads: "Somewhere in there is
home, is Ada. He goes on." That's all; such a small ⊕, but loaded
with such emotion: He's home. That leads us into Act III, the
⊡.
Do all good screenplays fit the paradigm? Yes. But just because a
screenplay is well structured and fits the paradigm doesn't make it
a good screenplay, or a good movie. The paradigm is a form, not a
formula. Structure is what holds the story together.
What's the distinction between form and formula? The form
of a coat or jacket, for example, is two arms, a front, and a back.
And within that form of arms, front, and back you can have any
variation of style, fabric, color, and size—but the form remains
intact.
A formula, however, is totally different. A formula never varies;
certain elements are put together so they come out exactly the η
each and every time. If you put that coat on an assembly line, every
coat will be exactly the η, with the η pattern, the η fabric,
— WHAT IS A SCREENPLAY?— 29
the η color, the η cut, the η material. The coat does not
change, except for the size. A screenplay, on the other hand, is
unique, a totally individual presentation.
The paradigm is a form, not a formula; it's what holds the story
together. It is the spine, the skeleton. Story determines structure;
structure doesn't determine story.
The dramatic structure of the screenplay maybe denned as a lin-
ear arrangement of related incidents, episodes, or events leading to a
dramatic ⊡.
How you utilize these structural components determines the
form of your screenplay. The Hours (David Hare, adapted from the
novel by ⊯ Cunningham) is told in three different time peri-
ods and has a definite structure. It's the η with American Beauty:
The whole story is told in flashback, just like Woody Allen's Annie
Hall. Cold Mountain is also told in flashback, but has a definite be-
ginning, ⊦, and end. Citizen Kane is also told in flashback, but
this does not detract from its form.
The paradigm is a model, an example, or a conceptual scheme; it
is what a well-structured screenplay looks like, an overview of the
story line as it unfolds from ⊤ to end.
Screenplays that work follow the paradigm. But don't take my
word for it. Go to a movie and see whether you can determine its
structure for yourself.
Some of you may not believe that. You may not believe in begin-
nings, middles, and ends, either. You may say that art, like life, is
nothing more than several individual "moments" suspended in
some giant ⊦, with no ⊤ and no end, what Kurt
Vonnegut calls "a series of random moments" strung together in a
haphazard fashion.
I disagree.
Birth? Life? Death? Isn't that a ⊤, ⊦, and end?
Spring, summer, fall, and winter—isn't that a ⊤, ⊦,
and end? θ, afternoon, λ—it's always the η, but dif-
ferent. Think about the rise and fall of great ancient civilizations—
Egyptian, Greek, and Roman, each rising from the seed of a small
community to the apex of power, then disintegrating and dying.
'
30 —SCREENPLAY—
Think about the birth and death of a star, or the ⊤ of the
universe. If there's a ⊤, like the Big Bang, is there going to
be an end?
Think about the cells in our bodies. How often are they replen-
ished, restored, and re-created? Every seven years—within a seven-
year cycle all the cells in our bodies are born, function, die, and are
reborn again.
Think about the first κ of a new job, or a new school, or a new
house or apartment; you'll meet new people, assume new responsi-
bilities, create new friendships.
Screenplays are no different. They have a definite ⊤,
⊦, and end, but not necessarily in that order.
If you don't believe the paradigm, or in the three-act structure
first laid down by Aristotle, go check it out. Go to a movie—go see
several movies—and see whether they fit the paradigm or not.
If you're interested in writing screenplays, you should be doing
this all the time. Every movie you see is a learning process, expand-
ing your awareness and comprehension of what a movie is: a story
told with pictures.
You should also read as many screenplays as possible in order to
expand your awareness of the form and structure. Many screenplays
have been reprinted in book form and most bookstores have them,
or can order them. You can also go online and do a Google search
under "screenplays" and find a number of sites that allow you to
download screenplays. Some are free, some you pay for.
I have my students read and study scripts like Chinatown,
Network (Paddy Chayefsky), American Beauty, The Shawshank
Redemption (Frank Darabont), Sideways (Alexander Payne and Jim
Taylor), The Matrix, Annie Hall, and Lord of the Rings. These scripts
are excellent teaching aids. If they aren't available, read any screen-
play you can find. The more the better.
The paradigm works. It is the foundation of every good screen-
play, the foundation of dramatic structure.
"Rosebud . . .Maybe that was something he
lost. . . . You see, Mr. Kane was a man who
lost almost everything he had."
—Everett Sloane speculating on the
meaning of "Rosebud" Citizen Kane
Herman Mankiewicz and Orson Welles
Orsen Welles's Citizen Kane has been universally acclaimed as the
greatest film ever made. From the very first frame, the full portrait
of Kane's character is set up visually; the film opens shrouded in fog
and the first thing we see is a high wired chain-link fence bolstered
with the initial K. Deep in the background, a huge, isolated mansion
stands high on the hill. Moving closer, we see boxes and crates of
antiques, artworks, and ancient artifacts stacked everywhere. Huge
pens house exotic animals, and then we're inside the enormous
castle, so full, yet so empty of life. Then we cut to an extreme close-up
of the man known as Citizen Kane as he whispers his last word:
"Rosebud." A glass paperweight falls from his fingers and breaks
open, and we see snow, the first glimpse of a lost childhood.
Like a classic mystery, the story begins. Who is Charles Foster
Kane? What is he? Who or what is Rosebud? As if in answer, we cut
to a darkened screening room filled with chain-smoking reporters
and watch newsreel footage of Charles Foster Kane, a man larger
than life, filled with an insatiable appetite, a man of total excess.
The great director Robert Wise ( West Side Story, The Sound of
Music, The Sand Pebbles, to name just a few) edited the film, and he
shared with me in one of our conversations that Welles first shot all
the simulated newsreel footage, and then, to make it appear more
"real," he had Wise crinkle it up and drag it across the cutting room
32 —SCREENPLAY—
floor. It lent an authentic, credible look to the film. Kane's entire life
is visually set up in less than a minute—through pictures, not
words.
Citizen Kane is truly a story told with pictures, a search for the
hidden meaning of Kane's life, which revolves around the last words
he utters on his deathbed. I call it "an emotional detective story," be-
cause the search for who and what Rosebud is leads us to uncover
the life of Charles Foster Kane. It's the answer to this question that
tells us what the movie is about. It is the subject of the screenplay.
What do you need to write a screenplay? An idea, of course, but
you can't sit down to write a script with just an idea in mind. An
idea, while essential, is nothing more than a vague notion. It has no
detail, no depth, no dimension. No, you need more than just an idea
to start writing a screenplay.
You need a subject to embody and dramatize the idea. A subject
is defined as an action and a character. An action is what the story is
about, and a character is who the story is about.
Every screenplay has a subject—it is what the story is about.
If we remember that a screenplay is like a noun, about a person
in a place, doing his/her "thing," we can see that the person is the
main character and doing his/her "thing" is the action. So, when we
talk about the subject of a screenplay, we're talking about an action
and a character or characters.
Every screenplay dramatizes an action and a character. You, as
the screenwriter, must know who your movie is about and what
happens to him or her. It is a primary principle in writing, not only
in screenplays but in all forms of writing.
Only at the end of Citizen Kane, after his death (which is where
the story really begins), when the warehouse is being cleared of
what seems to be endless piles of junk, curios, furniture, and un-
packed crates, do we understand the significance of Rosebud. As the
camera moves into a darkened corner, we see a huge collection of
toys, paintings, and statues. Slowly, the camera pans Kane's posses-
sions, until it reaches the blazing furnace. Workmen are tossing var-
ious items into the flames. One of the items is a sled, the very one
Kane had as a boy in Colorado. When it's thrown into the fire the
— THE SUBJECT — 33
camera moves in tight on the sled, and as it catches fire, the name
"Rosebud" is revealed.
Only then do we recall that when Mr. Thatcher, the executor of
Kane's estate, first describes his meeting with Kane as a boy often or
so, young Charles is sledding down the hill in the snow. It is an emo-
tionally riveting moment, emblematic of the lost youth Kane would
spend his life searching for, but never find. We cut outside the huge
mansion as the smoke from Kane's lost youth curls upward into
the ι sky. The film ends with the η shot of the iron fence
that opened the film. "I was with him from the very ⊤,"
Mr. Bernstein says during the film, adding, "Mr. Kane was a man
who lost everything he had." It is one of the great moments in
movie history.
If you want to write a screenplay, what is it about? And who is it
about? Citizen Kane begins with a search based on a dying man's last
words and ends up revealing the secret of his entire life. Seeking the
answer provides the ⊚ thrust, the emotional through line of
the film.
Do you know the subject of your screenplay? What it's about?
And who is it about? Can you express it in a few sentences? Do you,
for example, want to tell the story of two women going on a crime
spree? If you do, do you know who these two women are? Where
they came from? What their background is? And then, what crimes
did they commit? And why? Do you know what happens to them at
the end? Defining the answers to these questions allows you to
gather enough information to write your screenplay from the posi-
tion of choice, confidence, and security. If you know what you're
doing, then you can figure out the best way of doing it.
Knowing your subject is the starting point of writing the screen-
play. And make no mistake: Every screenplay has a subject. The Last
Samurai (John Logan) is about an embittered Civil War mercenary
(Tom Cruise) who travels to Japan and is ultimately transformed by
the people who were originally his enemy, a band of samurai war-
riors. The character is the Civil War mercenary, and the action is
how he is transformed in thought, word, and action, allowing him
to regain a sense of self he had lost after the war ended. But that's
34 —SCREENPLAY —
only what the film is about on the surface. On a deeper level, what
it's really about is how the American military adviser learns to em-
body the virtues of honor and loyalty.
Cold Mountain is about Inman's returning home to the town he
lived in prior to the war and returning to his loved one, Ada. But on
a deeper, more emotional level, the story is about a place in the
heart, a place filled with love and meaning, a place that was sacred
before hostilities began and before people started killing in the
name of political "correctness," a place that took this great gift of life
for granted, before our sensibilities and moral standards began to
crumble in the chasm of war.
Bonnie and Clyde (David Newman and Robert Benton) is a story
about Clyde Barrow and his gang holding up banks in the Midwest
during the Depression and the robbers' eventual downfall. Action
and character. It's essential to isolate your generalized idea into a
specific dramatic premise. And that becomes the starting point of
your screenplay.
Again, every story has a definite ⊤, ⊦, and end. In
Bonnie and Clyde, the ⊤ dramatizes the meeting of Bonnie
(Faye Dunaway) and Clyde (Warren Beatty) and the forming of
their gang. In the ⊦, they hold up several banks and the law
goes after them. In the end, they are caught by the forces of society
and killed. Set-Up, Confrontation, and ⊡.
When you can articulate your subject in a few sentences, in
terms of action and character, you're ready to begin expanding the
elements of structure and story. It may take several pages of free-
association writing about your story before you can begin to grasp
the essentials and reduce a complex story line to a simple sentence
or two. Don't worry about it. Just keep doing it, and you will be able
to articulate your story idea clearly and concisely.
Knowing what you are writing about is absolutely essential as
you delve deeper into the action and characters. Because if you don't
know what your story is about, who does? The reader? The viewer?
If you don't know what you're writing about, how do you expect
someone else to know? The writer must always exercise choice and
responsibility in determining the dramatic execution of the story.
Choice and responsibility—these words will be a familiar refrain
— THE SUBJECT— 35
throughout this book. Every creative decision must be made by
choice, not necessity. If your character walks out of a bank, that's one
story. If he runs out of a bank, that's another story.
Many times you may feel the urge to sit down and start writing a
screenplay but you don't really know what to write about. So you go
looking for a subject. Just know that when you're looking for your
subject, your subject is really looking for you. You'll find it some-
place, at some time, probably when you're least expecting it. It will
be yours to follow through on or not, as you choose.
What or whom do you want to write about? A character? A
particular emotional situation? An experience that you or one of
your family members or friends has gone through? Many people al-
ready have ideas they want to turn into a screenplay. Others don't.
How do you go about finding a subject?
An idea in a newspaper or on the TV news or an incident that
might have happened to a friend or relative can be the subject of a
movie. The Pianist (Ron Harwood, from the memoir by Wladyslaw
Szpilman) is a film about survival, based on the writings of a sur-
vivor of the Holocaust, ⊮ also reflects the childhood of director
Roman Polanski. Saving Private Ryan (Robert Rodat) is based on an
actual incident that occurred during World War II. In The Royal
Tenenbaums (Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson), the subject is a
dysfunctional family dealing with failure and forgiveness. Dog κ
Afternoon (Frank Pierson) was a newspaper article before it became
a movie.
Before Robert Towne wrote Chinatown, he once told me, he wanted
to write a Raymond Chandler-type detective story. He found the
material for Chinatown in a Los Angeles water scandal he read about
in an old newspaper of that period, and used the backdrop of the
Owens Valley scandal for his detective story. Shampoo (Robert
Towne and Warren Beatty) grew out of several incidents involving
a celebrated Hollywood hairstylist. Collateral (Stuart Beattie)
emerged during the writer's conversation with a taxi driver. Taxi
Driver (Paul Schrader) is a story about the loneliness of driving
ca a cab in New York City. Bonnie and Clyde, Butch Cassidy and
the Sundance Kid (William Goldman), and All the President's Men
William Goldman) grew out of real people in real situations. Your
36 —SCREENPLAY—
subject will find you, given the opportunity. It's very simple. Trust
yourself. Just start looking for an action and a character.
When you can express your idea succinctly in terms of action and
character—my story is about this person, in this place, doing his/her
"thing"—you're ⊤ the preparation of your screenplay.
The next step is expanding your subject. Fleshing out the action
and focusing on the character broadens the story line and accentu-
ates the details. Gather your material any way you can. It will always
be to your advantage.
Over the years, I talked to a lot of people who wondered about
the value, or necessity, of doing research. I began my career in film
by making documentaries for David L. Wolper, working on such
shows as the Biography series with Mike Wallace, winner of the
Peabody Award; Hollywood and the Stars; the National Geographic
shows; Men in Crisis; some of the Jacques Cousteau specials; and
many more. It was while I was at Wolper that I learned the value of
research. It became an indispensable part of my writing and teach-
ing experience.
On every show I've ever been associated with, as writer, direc-
tor, producer, or researcher, I've begun the process by finding out
as much as I can about the subject. As far as I'm concerned,
research is absolutely essential. All writing entails research, and re-
search means gathering information. Remember, the hardest part of
writing is knowing what to write.
By doing research—whether in written sources such as books,
magazines, or newspapers or through personal interviews—you ac-
quire information. The information you collect allows you to oper-
ate from the position of choice, confidence, and responsibility. You
can choose to use some, or all, or none of the material you've gath-
ered; that's your choice, dictated by the terms of the story. Not using
it because you don't have it offers you no choice at all, and will al-
ways work against you and your story.
Too many people start writing their material with only a vague,
half-formed idea in their heads. This works for about thirty pages,
then falls apart. You don't know what happens next, or what to do
next, or where to go, and you end up getting angry, confused, and
frustrated. Then, in most cases, you give up.
— THE SUBJECT— 37
There are two kinds of research. One I call text research. That
means going to the library and pulling out books and newspaper
and magazine articles and reading about a period, people, a profes-
sion, or whatever. If you're writing a period piece or a historical
piece, you need to gather information about the time and the events
that happened during it and then weave your emotional through
line into your characters. I get most of my information from read-
ing about the period and any first-person writings I can find. If
you're writing about a subject that you don't know much about, you
need to get information to make your story line real, believable, and
true. Edward Zwick, who directed The Last Samurai, worked exten-
sively with John Logan, the writer. Zwick spent more than a year
reading about the Japanese culture and the samurai tradition.
The second form of research I call live research. It means going
to the source—doing live interviews, talking to people, getting a
"feel" for the subject. If it is necessary or possible to conduct per-
sonal interviews, you'll be surprised to find that most people are
willing to help you in any way they can, and will often go out of
their way to assist you in your search for accurate information.
Personal interviews offer another advantage: They can give you a
more immediate and spontaneous slant than a book, newspaper, or
magazine story. It's the next best thing to having experienced some-
thing yourself. Remember: The more you know, the more you can
communicate. And be in a position of choice and responsibility
when making creative decisions.
At present, I'm writing a sci-fi epic space adventure, about a cos-
mic phenomenon that drastically impacts Earth. Since I know
nothing about cosmic events of this magnitude, I made contact
with the media relations person at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in
Pasadena, California, and she gave me a lot of information, along
with the names of some scientists. I then spent almost three months
learning about the phenomenon known as a "gamma ray burst."
With this information, even though I'm stretching the bounds of
reality to "fit" my creative purpose, the subject is still based on real-
ity, what could happen if this event actually came to pass.
A while ago I had the opportunity of working on a story with
Craig Breedlove, onetime holder of the World Land Speed Record,
38 —SCREENPLAY—
and the first man to go 400, 500, and 600 miles per hour on land
and live. Craig created a jet-propelled car that traveled at a speed of
400 miles per hour for a quarter mile. The rocket system was the
η system used to land a man on the moon. I spent several days
hanging out with him and reading the history of the Land Speed
Record.
The story is about a man breaking the World Water Speed Record
in a rocket boat. But a rocket boat doesn't exist, at least at this writ-
ing. I had to do all kinds of research to find out about my subject
matter. What is the Water Speed Record? Where do you go to break
the record? Is it possible for a rocket boat to ⊜ the record? How
do the officials time the boats? Is a speed of over 400 miles per hour
on water possible? From my conversations with Craig, I learned
about rocket systems, the Water Speed Record, and designing and
building a racing boat. And out of those conversations came an ac-
tion and a character. And a way to fuse fact and fiction into a dra-
matic story line.
The principle rule of storytelling bears repetition: The more you
know, the more you can communicate.
Research is essential in writing a screenplay. Once you choose
your subject, and can state it briefly in a sentence or two, you can
begin preliminary research. Determine where you can go to in-
crease your knowledge of the subject. Paul Schrader, who wrote
Taxi Driver, once wanted to write a movie that took place on a train.
So he took a train from Los Angeles to New York, and when he
stepped off the train he realized he didn't have a story; he hadn't
found one. That's okay. Choose another subject. Schrader went on
to write Obsession, and Colin Higgins, who wrote Harold and
Maude, went on to write a train story, Silver Streak. Richard Brooks
spent eight months researching Bite the Bullet before he put one
word on paper. He did the η thing with The Professionals and
In Cold Blood, even though he based the latter on Truman Capote's
exhaustively researched book. Waldo Salt, who wrote Midnight
Cowboy, researched Coming Home by speaking to and recording
some twenty-six paralyzed Vietnam veterans, which resulted in two
hundred hours of taped interviews.
Waldo Salt believed in capturing "the truth" of the characters in
— THE SUBJECT— 39
a story. I had the good fortune of having several conversations with
Waldo, and he was not only an extraordinary writer, but an extraor-
dinary person. We talked about the craft of screenwriting a lot, and
Waldo told me that he believed the character's need (the dramatic
need—what the character wants to win, gain, or achieve) deter-
mines the dramatic structure. His words resonated with me imme-
diately, and I shared with him that I had recently come to the η
understanding while I was analyzing Woody Allen's Annie Hall: The
character's need determines the creative choices he/she makes dur-
ing the screenplay, and gaining clarity about that need allows you to
be more complex, more dimensional, in your character portrayal.
It was a powerful moment for both of us as we sat in an unspo-
ken glow of communication that was more powerful than words,
and it led to a long and passionate discussion about capturing "the
truth of the human condition" in a screenplay. The key to a success-
ful screenplay, Waldo emphasized, was preparing the material.
⊘, he said, is "perishable," because the actor can always im-
provise lines to make something work. But, he added forcefully, the
character's dramatic need is sacrosanct. That cannot be changed,
because it holds the entire story in place. Putting words down on
paper, he said, is the easiest part of the screenwriting process; it is
the visual conception of the story that takes so long. And he quoted
Picasso: "Art is the elimination of the unnecessary."
If you're writing a story about a bicycle racer like Lance
Armstrong, for example, what kind of racer is he? A sprinter or a
long-distance racer? Where do the bicycle races take place? Where
do you want to set your story? In what city? Are there different types
of races, or racing circuits? Associations and clubs? How many races
are held throughout the year? What about international competi-
tion? Does it affect your story? The character? What kind of bikes
are used? How do you become a bicycle racer? These questions must
be answered before you start putting words on paper.
Research gives you ideas, a sense of people, situation, and locale.
It allows you to gain a degree of confidence so you are always on top
of your subject, operating from choice, not necessity or ignorance.
Start with your subject. When you think subject, think action and
haracter. This is what subject looks like in a diagram.
40 —SCREENPLAY-
SUBJECT
I
I
Action character
I I I
physical emotional define action is
the need character
There are two kinds of action—physical action and emotional
action. Physical action can be a battle ⊟, like the ⊨
of Cold Mountain; or a car chase, as in Bullitt or The French
Connection; or a race, or competition, or fight, fed by revenge, as
in Kill Bill I and II (Quentin Tarantino); or the shoot-out on a
farm that makes up the last act of Witness. Emotional action is
what happens inside your characters during the story. Emotional
action is the center of the drama in Cold Mountain, Love Story, The
Royal Tenenbautns, American Beauty, and Lost in Translation (Sofia
Coppola). The emotional context of the great Italian director
Michelangelo Antonioni's films makes up the internal action in
masterpieces like Blow-Up, L'Avventura, VEclisse, and La Notte. The
search for the correct way to live in our times is the centerpiece of
the maestro's oeuvre. As you can see, most films contain both kinds
of action, physical and emotional.
Ask yourself what kind of story you are writing. Is it an outdoor
action-adventure movie, or is it a story about a relationship, an
emotional story? Once you determine what kind of action you're
dealing with, you can move into the life of your character.
First, define the dramatic need of your character. What does your
character want? What is his/her need? What drives him to the reso-
lution of your story? In Chinatown, Jake Gittes's need is to find out
who set him up, and why. In The Bourne Supremacy (Tony Gilroy),
Jason Bourne (Matt Damon) needs to know who wants to kill him,
and why. You must define the need of your character. What does
he/she want?
Sonny (Al Pacino) holds up the bank in Dog κ Afternoon to
get money for a sex-change operation for his male lover. That is his
need. If your character creates a system to ⊜ the tables in Las
Vegas, how much does he need to win before he knows if the system
— THE SUBJECT— 4)
works or doesn't? The need of your character gives you a goal, a des-
tination, an ⊥ to your story. How your character achieves or
does not achieve that goal becomes the action of your story.
As I said before, and will say again, all drama is ⊖. If you
know the need of your character, you can create obstacles to fulfill
that need. How he/she overcomes those obstacles is your story.
⊖, struggle, overcoming obstacles, both inside and outside,
are the primary ingredients in all drama—in comedy, too. It is the
writer's responsibility to generate enough ⊖ to keep the
reader, or the audience, interested. The job of the screenwriter is to
keep the reader turning pages. The story always has to move for-
ward, toward its ⊡.
And it all comes down to knowing your subject. If you know the
action and character of your screenplay, you can define the need of
the character and then create obstacles to that need. The dramatic
need of The Bride (Uma Thurman) in Kill Bill is simply revenge. It
is the fuel that feeds the story engine.
In Midnight Cowboy, Joe Buck (Jon Voight) comes to New York
to hustle women. That is his need. It is also his dream. And, as far as
he's concerned, he's going to make a lot of money and satisfy a lot of
women in the process.
What are the obstacles he immediately confronts? He gets hus-
tled by Ratso (Dustin Hoffman), loses his money, doesn't have any
friends or a job, and the women of New York don't even acknowl-
edge his existence. Some dream! His need collides head-on with the
harsh reality of New York City. That's ⊖.
Without ⊖, there is no action. Without action, there is no
character. Action is Character. What a person does is what he is, not
what he saysl
When you begin to explore your subject, you will see that all
things are related in your screenplay. Nothing is thrown in by
chance, or because it's cute or clever. "There's a special Providence
in the fall of a sparrow," Shakespeare observed. "For every action
there is an equal and opposite reaction" is Newton's Third Law of
Motion, a natural law of the universe. The η principle applies to
your story. It is the subject of your screenplay.
KNOW YOUR SUBJECT! C_
42 —SCREENPLAY—
As an exercise, find a subject you want to explore in screenplay
form. If need be, look through the daily newspaper to see if a per-
son, or incident, or situation grabs your attention. Think about how
you might want to structure your story, then reduce it to a few
sentences in terms of action and character, then write it out.
Remember, it may take you a few pages to find out what you want to
do, and another page or two to clarify it, but then you'll be able to
eliminate the unnecessary and focus on your subject.
The Creation of
Character
"What is character but the determination of
incident? And what is incident but the illu-
mination of character?"
—The Art of Fiction
Henry James
What is Character?
That's a question that has haunted literary theorists from the be-
ginning of the written word. The challenge of creating real people
in real situations is so varied, so multifaceted, so unique, so individ-
ually challenging, that trying to define how you do it is like trying to
hold a bundle of water in your hands. Generation after generation
of noted writers, from Aristotle to Aeschylus, from Ibsen to Ionesco,
from Eugene O'Neill to Arthur Miller, have struggled to capture the
art and the craft of creating good characters.
One of the most articulate literary theorists of the nineteenth
century was the great American novelist Henry James, author of
Portrait of a Lady, Wings of the Dove, Turn of the Screw, and Daisy
Miller, among other masterworks. James was fascinated with the art
of fiction writing, and approached it like a scientist, the η way
his brother, William James, the famous psychologist, studied the dy-
namics of the human mind. Henry James wrote several essays try-
ing to document and define the intricacies of creating character. In
one of those essays, The Art of Fiction, James poses a literary
ti
question: What is character but the determination of incident? And
o
what is incident hut the illumination of character?
44 —SCREENPLAY—
It's a profound statement.
The key word, of course, is incident. According to the dictionary,
an incident is "a specific occurrence or event that occurs in connec-
tion or relationship to something else." Screenplays are usually
about a key incident, and the story is the character acting and react-
ing to it. It is the major source of all action and all character. After
twenty-five years of reading and analyzing screenplays and movies,
I have only recently begun to understand the importance of the in-
cident. All good movies, it seems, focus on the unfolding of a spe-
cific incident or event; and it is this incident that becomes the
engine that powers the story to its completion.
Frodo's assuming the mantle of ring bearer in Lord of the Rings
is the key incident in that film; as is Lester Burnham's seeing the
young girl Angela in American Beauty; as is Jake Gittes's being con-
fronted by the real Mrs. Mulwray in Chinatown. Sometimes inci-
dents and events in our lives bring out the best in us, or the worst.
Sometimes we recover from these events and sometimes we don't—
but they always impact us. At other times how we act and react, or
deal with a particular situation, reveals our "true" nature and tells us
who we really are. Miles in Sideways is a good illustration of that.
When he is saving his special bottle of wine for a "special occasion,"
he sees he doesn't have a special time or place for ⊨ it. So he
sits alone, in a fast-food joint, hiding his bottle of wine.
Events in a screenplay are specifically designed to bring out the
truth about the characters so that we, the reader and audience, can
transcend our ordinary lives and achieve a connection, or bond, be-
tween "them and us." We see ourselves in them and enjoy a moment,
perhaps, of recognition and understanding.
In The Art of Fiction, Henry James says that the incidents you create
for your characters are the best ways to illuminate who they are—that
is, reveal their true nature, their essential character. How they respond
to a particular incident or event, how they act and react, what they say
and do is what really defines the essence of their character.
How can we relate this concept to the process of creating character?
Thelma & Louise (Callie Khouri) is a story about two women who
kill a man, then attempt to flee the law and escape to Mexico, but get
caught at the Grand Canyon and, rather than go to prison, choose to
— THE CREATION OF CHARACTER— 45
take their own lives. If you take a look at these two characters, they are
two distinct, individual people who have the η dramatic need: to
escape safely to Mexico. They are different aspects of each other, and
they share everything, their life as well as their death. And during the
course of their journey, we get to know them, love them, and wish that
things might have been different.
The reason why Henry James's statement is so relevant is because
the elements within the character really determine the incident; how
the character reacts to that incident is what illuminates and truly de-
fines his/her character. In Thelma & Louise, it's set up immediately, at
the ⊤ of Act I. Thelma (Geena Davis) and Louise (Susan
Sarandon) set out for a weekend holiday in the mountains, stop at a
bar, and meet a guy named Harlan, who takes a liking to Thelma. He
plies her with drinks, then attempts to rape her in the parking lot. It
turns ugly, until Louise comes along, threatens Harlan with Thelma's
gun, and, when he mouths off to her, loses it, pulls the trigger, and
kills him. ⊗ Point I. It is the key incident in the movie. Now the
"real" story is about their attempt to escape to Mexico.
As mentioned, ⊗ Point I is the true ⊤ of the screen-
play and swings the story around into Act II. For the rest of the
story, Thelma and Louise are on the run. As they race down the
highway of their life, like so many other characters in so many other
movies, they are forced to come to grips with themselves, find out
who they really are, and ultimately take responsibility for their lives
and actions. Thelma & Louise is a road movie, yes, ⊮'s really a
journey of enlightenment, a journey of self-discovery. And it begins
with the incident, the hub of the wheel of action.
It is the character that determines the incident, in this case
Louise's killing Harlan, then fleeing in fear and uncertainty. What's
important for me, and you, as writers, is to ask what it was within
Louise's character that caused her to pull the trigger—because this
incident is what ultimately reveals and illuminates the character. In
Louise's case, it is an incident that happened to her when she was a
young woman; it's only mentioned briefly, ⊮'s implied that she
was raped in Texas and then brought charges against her attackers,
but could get no satisfaction, no revenge, no justice. Indeed, instead
of being seen as the victim, she was considered^by many to have
46 —SCREENPLAY—
been the instigator. At that moment, she made a promise to herself:
She would never take one step inside the state of Texas ever again.
This decision ultimately brings about her death.
Joseph Campbell reflects in The Power of Myth that in mythic
terms, the first part of any journey of initiation must deal with the
death of the old self and the resurrection of the new. Campbell says
that the hero, or heroic figure, "moves not into outer space but into
inward space, to the place from which all being comes, into the con-
sciousness that is the source of all things, the kingdom of heaven
within. The images are outward, but their reflection is inward."
It seems to me that the Louise in Act I who pulled the trigger,
killing Harlan, is not the Louise who really killed him; rather, it was
the young Louise, caught in the web of female justice, Texas style,
who actually pulled that trigger. She never recovered from her expe-
rience, and it simmered in her consciousness below the thin veneer
of time and memory, just waiting for a chance to erupt.
Writers create characters in a variety of different ways. I once
asked Waldo Salt how he went about creating characters, and he
replied that the first thing he did was to choose a simple dramatic
need; then he would add to it, coloring it until it became a universal
chord common to Everyman. For Waldo, that became the essence of
his character. And he was a master screenwriter, a major artist.
What's the best way to go about creating character? And how do
you establish a relationship between your character, his or her dra-
matic choices, and the story you're telling? How do you determine
whether your character will drive a car, or ride a bicycle, or take the
bus or subway, and what kind of paintings or posters hang in
his/her house or apartment?
Character is the essential internal foundation of your screenplay.
The cornerstone. It is the heart and soul and nervous system of your
screenplay. Before you can put one word down on paper, you must
know your character.
In a screenplay, the story always moves forward, from ⊤
to end, whether in a linear or nonlinear fashion. It doesn't matter if
it's a story like Titanic or The Hours; Lord of the Rings or The
English Patient (Anthony Minghella); The Shawshank Redemption or
Memento (Christopher Nolan). The way you drive your story for-
— THE CREATION OF CHARACTER — 47
ward is by focusing on the actions of the character and the dramatic
choices he or she makes during the ⊚ story line.
So what is character? Action is character; a person is what he does,
not what he says. Film is behavior. Because we're telling a story
pictures, we must show how the character acts and reacts to the
Kidents and events that he/she confronts and overcomes (or doesn't
avercome) during the story line. If you're writing your script and
snse your characters are not as sharp or defined as you think they
should be, and feel they should be stronger, more dimensional, and
more universal in terms of thoughts, feelings, and emotions, the
irst thing you must determine is whether they're an active force in
the screenplay—whether they cause things to happen, or whether
things happen to them.
But first, who is your main character? Who is your story about? If
jur story is about three guys preparing to steal moon rocks, which one
af the three is the main character! You have to know that. In Lord of the
Rings, do you know who the main character is? Is it Frodo, Sam,
îandalf (Ian McKellen), or Aragorn (Viggo Mortensen)? Or is it all of
lem? If you aren't sure, just ask yourself: Who is this story about? In
Lord of the Rings, you could say, with good cause, that Aragorn is the
main character because he leads the Fellowship, makes the decisions,
and becomes the king. But take away all the trappings and the story is
really about returning the ring to its place of origin, Mount Doom, so it
i be destroyed. That's what this story is about; therefore, Frodo is the
main character. You can have more than one main character, of course,
3ut it certainly clarifies things if you identify a single hero or heroine.
Frequently a story is about what distinguishes the main character
from the other characters. Who is the main character in The
7
Shawshank Redemption . Red, the Morgan Freeman character, has
the largest part of the movie, and he is the character telling us about
idy Dufrense (Tim Robbins). But the story is really about Andy, so
even though his part is not as large as Red's, he is the main character
because the story is about him. What about Butch Cassidy and the
7
Sundance Kid. Butch (Paul Newman) is the main character. He is the
îan making the decisions. Butch has a great line where he broaches
one of his usual wild schemes to Sundance (Robert Redford), and
Sundance just looks at him, doesn't say a word, and turns away. And
48 —SCREENPLAY—
Butch mutters to himself: "I got vision and the rest of the world
wears bifocals." And it's true. Within the context of that screenplay,
Butch Cassidy is the main character—he is the character who plans
things, who acts. Butch leads and Sundance follows. It is Butch's idea
to leave for South America; he knows their outlaw days are num-
bered, and to escape the law, death, or both, they must leave. He con-
vinces Sundance and Etta Place to go with him. Sundance is a major
character, not the main character. Once you establish the main char-
acter, you can explore ways to create a full-bodied, dimensional
character portrait.
There are several ways to approach creating your characters and
all of them are valid, but you must choose the best way for you. The
method outlined below gives you the opportunity of choosing what
you want to use, or not use, in developing your characters.
First, establish your main character. Who is your story about?
Separate the components of his/her life into two basic categories:
interior and exterior. The interior life of your character takes place
from birth up until the time your story begins. It is a process that
forms character. The exterior life of your character takes place from
the moment your film begins to the ⊩ of the story. It is a
process that reveals character.
Film is a visual medium. You must find ways to reveal your char-
acter's conflicts visually. You cannot reveal what you don't know.
Thus, it's important to make the distinction between knowing your
character as a thought, notion, or idea in your head and revealing
him or her on paper.
Diagrammed, it looks like this:
CHARACTER
I I
INTERIOR EXTERIOR
(from birth till present) (from start of movie to end)
emotional life physical life
I I
Forms character Reveals character
define action is
the need character
— THE CREATION OF CHARACTER— 49
The Character Biography is an exercise that reveals your charac-
ter's interior life, the emotional forces working on your character
from birth. Is your character male or female? If male, how old is he
when the story begins? Where does he live, what city or country?
Where was he born? Was he an only child, or did he have brothers
and sisters? What kind of childhood did he have? Happy? Sad?
Physically or medically challenging? What was his relationship to
his parents? Did he get into a lot of trouble as a kid? Was he mischie-
vous? What kind of a child was he? Outgoing, an extrovert; or stu-
dious, an introvert?
When you begin formulating your character from birth, you
begin to see your character build. Pursue his/her life through the
first ten years; include his/her preschool and school years, relation-
ships with friends and family and teachers. Did a single parent raise
your character? Mother or father? Aunt or uncle? How did they get
along? Is your character streetwise or sheltered? What kind of jobs
did the parent(s) have to make ends meet?
Move into the second ten years of your character's life, ages ten
to twenty. That means ⊦ and high school. What kind of influ
ences did your character have while growing up? Friends? What
kind of interests? School, athletics, social, political? Did your char
acter take an interest in extracurricular or after-school activities,
like a debating club? What about sexual experiences? Relationships
with peers? Did your character have to work part-time during high
school? What about any sibling relationships? Any envy or hostility
present? In other words, you want as much information as you can
get about your character as he/she is growing up. What about rela
tionships with teachers? What kind of relationship did your charac
ter have with his/her parents during these years? Did any major
traumatic event happen that may have emotionally influenced your
character? In high school, what kind of experience did he/she have?
Did he/she have many friends or just a few friends? Did he/she feel
like an outsider? Take a look at Mean Girls (Tina Fey). The whole
film is built around feeling unpopular.
Paul Thomas Anderson's Magnolia deals with the themes of rec-
onciliation and forgiveness, revealing how parents' actions shape
and influence their children. (Ibsen's great play Ghosts deals with
50 —SCREENPLAY —
the η themes, with how the sins of the father are passed on to the
son.) In Magnolia, Earl (Jason Robards) is on his deathbed and con-
fesses his sins, attempting to forgive himself for walking out on his
dying wife and son, thus leaving the then fourteen-year-old Frank
(Tom Cruise) to care for his dying mother alone. That incident has
affected Frank's entire life and led him to develop a lifestyle where he
seeks to convince men that sex is a weapon that can be used to "de-
stroy the opposite sex." By confronting Earl on his deathbed, Frank is
able to complete his relationship with his father before he dies.
Move into the college years. Did your character go to college, or
even consider college? What college or university did he or she go
to? What was his or her major? Was your character active politi-
cally? Did he or she join clubs or student body organizations? Did
your character have a significant relationship while in college? What
happened in this relationship? How long were they together? Did
they get married? When the story begins, is your character married,
widowed, single, separated, or divorced? If married, for how long
and to whom?
Continue to trace your character's life until the story begins.
Examine his/her career, relationships, dreams, hopes, and aspira-
tions. Many times reality collides with dreams and fantasies and
generates a sense of ⊖ within the character's life. Ask yourself
questions; be observant; notice your own friends, family, and ac-
quaintances. Sometimes you can use the information you observe
in a slightly different form.
Remember, you are not your character. You do not have the η
name, η situation, or η birth date. The time frame of events
you want to write about may have to be modified to gain greater in-
sight into the character. You may share certain similarities with the
character, but if you think you're going to use yourself as the model,
it's not going to work. Writing is the ability to ask yourself questions
and wait for the answers. As a side note, it's important to phrase
your creative questions to begin with the word what, not why. What
implies a specific response; if you ask yourself a question ⊤
with the word why, you can get many different answers, and they
may all be correct. So try to phrase any questions using the word
what: What causes my character to react in this manner? (Not: Why
— THE CREATION OF CHARACTER— 51
does my character do this?) What is the purpose of this ⊕? It
may take a while to phrase the question, and the answer may not ap-
pear as soon as you would like it to, but trust the process; it's bigger
than you are. That's why I call writing a character biography cre-
ative research. You're asking questions and getting answers. You're
building the interior life of your character, the emotional life, on a
firm foundation so that your character can move and evolve in a
definite ⊠ through the story, can change and grow
through certain emotional stages of the action. It's not very often
that characters will be the η at the ⊤ of a story as they
are at the end; their thoughts and feelings will probably change dur-
ing the emotional through line of the action.
Once you've established the interior aspect of your character in a
character biography, you can move into the exterior portion of your
story.
The exterior aspect of your character takes place during the ac-
tual time of the screenplay, from the first fade-in to the final fade-
out. It is important to examine the relationships in the lives of your
characters, as they have the potential of becoming a resource for
greater depth of character, including subplots, secondary actions,
and any possible intercutting you may want to do to build the rela-
tionship between characters and story.
How do you make your characters real, believable, and multi-
dimensional people during your story? From fade-in to fade-out?
The best way to do this is to separate your characters' lives into
three basic components—their professional life, their personal life,
and their private life. These areas of your characters' lives can be
dramatized over the course of the screenplay.
Professional: What does your main character do for a living? You
need to know this. As mentioned, if you don't know your character,
who does? Where does he or she work? Is she the vice president of a
bank? A construction worker? A doctor? A sound technician? A sci-
entist? A professor? The clearer you are, the more believable your
characters become. Are they sad or happy with tpeir lives? Do they
wish their lives were different—another job, or another wife, or
possibly another self? In Michelangelo Antonioni's The Passenger,
David Locke (Jack Nicholson) finds a dead man and decides to take
52 —SCREENPLAY —
his identity, not knowing what his destiny will be. Sometimes we
wish for what the other person has.
Go into your character's workplace and start defining the people
that he or she interacts with on a daily basis; his/her boss, the vari-
ous assistants, secretaries, salesmen, corporate heads, and so on.
Define the relationships with coworkers. Are the relationships good,
bad, supportive, happy, or sad; are there any conflicts in the relation-
ships? If so, what are they about? Professional jealousy, anger, differ-
ent personality types? How does your character deal with it? With
argument and discussion? Or by silence and withdrawal? By launch-
ing personal attacks?
If your character works in an office environment, what is his/her
job description? Who is his/her strongest supporter? How well do
the two of them get along? Do they confide in each other? Socialize
with each other during off hours? How does she get along with her
boss? Is it a good relationship, or is there some resentment because
of the way things are going in the office, or pending mergers or buy-
outs, or possible looming salary cutbacks and layoffs?
In a free-association essay of about a page or two, define your
character's professional life. Don't try to censor yourself; just throw
it all down on the page. When you can describe and explore the re-
lationships of your main character with the other people in his/her
professional life, you're creating a personality and a point of view.
And that's the starting point of building and broadening and en-
hancing the richness of your character's life.
Personal: Is your main character married, single, widowed, di-
vorced, or separated? Is your character in a relationship when the
story begins? If so, who is he/she with and how long have they been
together? If your character is married, whom did he or she marry?
Someone he met at school, or dated, or was fixed up with? Is the
person your character is with when the story begins from the η
background as she or do they come from "different sides of the
tracks"? Above or below him/her in terms of education or profes-
sion? Childhood sweethearts? College lovers? How long have they
been married? What does the marriage look like? Here's where the
length of the marriage comes in. If they have recently married, their
relationship is different from that of a couple who have been mar-
— THE CREATION OF CHARACTER— 53
ried for several years. Do they go places, do things together? Or do
they take each other for granted? Do they have many friends and
participate in social functions, or do they have only a few friends? Is
the marriage strong, or is your character thinking about, or partici-
pating in, extramarital affairs?
Finding ways to illustrate and reveal your character's relation-
ships are challenging, but rewarding. Think about conflicts; he may
want one thing, she another. It may be as important as whether or
not to have children, or simply that he likes sporting events and she
likes the theater. Go into this marriage and write it out. You can do
this as it applies to your individual screenplay, either as a back-
ground relationship or in the foreground, as part of the action.
My favorite film marriage is seen in Citizen Kane. Kane's mar-
riage is revealed in one incredible ⊟, which begins with the
marriage and honeymoon of Kane and his first wife. In the next cut,
we see them at breakfast having an intimate conversation. There is a
swish pan (the camera swishes quickly out of the frame) and we see
them in different clothes talking and reading the paper at breakfast.
Swish pan and we see them at a slightly larger table having a very
heated discussion. Swish β them having a more vocal argument
about his spending so much time at his newspaper. Swish β
them at a much larger table, both silent, both reading the paper, he
reading the Inquirer, she reading the Post, his primary competitor.
She asks him something and he simply grunts in reply. Swish β
them at a very long table eating in total silence. A significant period
of time covered in about a minute. The ⊟ tells us so much
about their relationship, and it's all done in brief shots, using pic-
tures instead of words. A screenplay, remember, is a story told with
pictures.
If your character is single, what is his/her single life like? Dating
many people, or getting somewhat serious about someone? If he or
she is alone when the story begins, when was his/her last relation-
ship? Was it serious or just a three-month/Hing? What are his/her
likes or dislikes? If your character is seeing someone when the story
begins, how long have they been together? Any conflicts in the rela-
tionship? What do they disagree about? What do they have in com-
mon? Any ex-girlfriends or ex-boyfriends in the equation? How do
54 —SCREENPLAY —
they work it out? Any other areas they have conflicts in? In terms
of a relationship, is she/he ready to move into some kind of com-
mitment?
Is she divorced? If yes, how long was she married? To whom?
What really happened that caused the breakup? How long were they
together? Any children? If yes, how often does she see the kids? And
how do the children feel about the divorce or someone new that one
of their parents might be seeing?
All these aspects of your character's relationships should be ex-
plored, thought about, written about. When you have doubts about
your character, go into your own life. Ask yourself—if you were in
that situation, what would you do in your character's place? This is
not to say that you are your character. You may have certain things
in common with your character, but I'll say it again: You are not
your character.
Define the personal relationships of your character in a page or
two. In free-association or automatic writing, just throw down all
your thoughts, words, and feelings on the page, and don't worry
what it looks like or reads like. No one is going to see this but you.
Private: What does your character do when he or she is alone?
Watch a lot of TV? Exercise—training for a triathlon competition?
Is he into sports, and goes to the gym three times a week? Does she
jog, do yoga, or take spinning classes? Take a creative writing class
one ι a week? Does she have any pets? What kind? What hob-
bies does your character have? Does he/she collect stamps, garden,
or take cooking classes? The private aspect covers the area of your
character's life when he/she is alone.
What's so beneficial about knowing your characters' profes-
sional, personal, and private lives is that you have something to cut
away to; if you are writing your screenplay and don't know what
happens next, you can go into the professional, personal, or private
aspects of your character's life and find something to show to move
the story forward.
Aristotle says in the Poetics: "Life consists in action and its end is
a mode of action, not a quality." That means your character has to
be active, has to be doing things, causing things to happen, not just
reacting all the time. Sometimes it's necessary for your character to
— THE CREATION OF CHARACTER — 55
react to a situation, but you can't have your main character con-
stantly reacting only to things that happen to him. If that happens,
he disappears off the page, and your story appears soft, without an
edge. Your character is what he/she does. Film is a visual medium,
and the writer's responsibility is to choose an image, or picture, that
cinematically dramatizes his or her character. You can create a dia-
logue ⊕ in a small and stuffy hotel room, or have the ⊕ occur
at the beach or under the stars. One is visually closed; the others vi-
sually open and dynamic. It's your story, your choice.
If we wanted to diagram the concept of character, it would look
like this:
CHARACTER
I
INTERIOR EXTERIOR
Forms character Reveals character
I
character define ------------
biography the need
1
action is
character
professional personal private
(work) (marital or (alone)
social)
ACTION IS CHARACTER.
Film is behavior. We can know a lot about characters by how
they react, or behave, in certain situations. Pictures, or images, re-
veal different aspects of character. Whereas character reveals the
deep-seated nature of who people are, in terms of values, actions,
and beliefs, characterization is expressed in the way people live, the
cars they drive, the pictures they hang on the wall, their likes and
dislikes, what they eat, and other forms ofindividual character ex-
pression. Character is expressed in who they are, by their actions
and reactions, by their creative choices. Characterization, on the
other hand, is expressed in their taste and how they look to the
world, what they wear, the cars they drive.
Form your characters by creating a character biography, then
56 —SCREENPLAY—
reveal them by showing who they are in the professional, personal,
and private aspects of their lives.
How powerful and effective can the character biography be? It is
a tremendous tool, revealing insights about the main character and
the source of possible ⊖. The character biography can be used
effectively within the body of the screenplay. Occasionally things
happen while you're writing your character biography in free asso-
ciation and events leap off the page at you. Sometimes you can
include these incidents or events in the screenplay. In The Royal
Tenenbaums, the first few pages of the screenplay set up the charac-
ters; the Narrator tells us the family history in a very novelistic ap-
proach: "Royal Tenenbaum bought the house on Archer Avenue in
the winter of his thirty-fifth year __Over the next decade, he and
his wife had three children, and then they separated...." As the nar-
rator gives us this information, we see the three children growing
up. It sets the tone for the entire film, about family, failure, and for-
giveness.
"What is character but the determination of incident? And
what is incident but the illumination of character?" says Henry
James.
In Seabiscuit, there are four main characters: Tom Smith (Chris
Cooper), Charles Howard (Jeff Bridges), Red Pollard (Tobey
Maguire), and the horse, Seabiscuit. All of them have lost some-
thing: Tom Smith lost his freedom; Charles Howard lost his young
son; Red Pollard lost his parents when he was "given away" dur-
ing the Depression; Seabiscuit was deemed unworthy and given
away when he was six months old. The film traces the journey of
these four characters and their search for belonging, not only for
themselves, but for the country at large. During America's
Depression in the 1930s, these three men and this horse inspired the
entire country and gave people something to cheer about, to feel
good about.
What's the value of creating a character biography? Look at
Seabiscuit: The Narrator tells us that Seabiscuit "was the son of
Hard Tack, sired by the mighty horse Man o' War ... but the breed
ing did little to impress anyone __At six months he was shipped
— THE CREATION OF CHARACTER— 57
off to train with the legendary trainer Sunny Fitzsimmons___
Fitzsimmons decided the horse was lazy and felt sure he could train
the obstinance out of him _ When he didn't improve, they de
cided the colt was incorrigibleThey made him a training part
ner to 'better' horses, forcing him to lose head-to-head duels to
boost the confidence of the other animal__ When they finally did
race him, he did just what they had trained him to do: He lost___
By the time he was a three-year-old, Seabiscuit was running in
two cheap claiming races a week. Soon he grew as bitter and angry
as his sire Hard Tack had been __He was sold for the rock-bottom
price of two thousand dollars __And, of course, it all made
sense__ Champions were large. They were sleek. They were with
out imperfection __This horse ran as they had always expected
him to...."
It took all four of them—Tom Smith, Charles Howard, Red
Pollard, and Seabiscuit—to join forces as a team, each member an
essential part of the whole, and become the pride and joy of
America. "You know," Red Pollard says in a ⊞-over at the end of
the film, "everybody thinks we found this broken-down horse and
fixed him... but we didn't __He fixed us. Every one of us. And, I
guess in a way, we kind of fixed each other, too."
If you want to write a screenplay, decide who you are writing about.
As an exercise, choose a character and write a character biography.
Free-associate. Just throw down thoughts, words, or ideas. Don't
worry about grammar and punctuation. Write in fragments. You
may want to start from birth but you don't have to follow your char-
acter's life in a linear form. Skip around if you have to; let your
creative consciousness dictate the flow of character. Break your
character's life down into the first ten years, the second ten years,
the third ten years, and beyond. Wri<e about five to seven pages in
free association, and if you choose, write more. When I write a char-
acter biography, I'll write more than twenty pages, starting with
my character's parents and grandparents on both sides, and then
1
58 —SCREENPLAY—
I'll even use past lives and astrology to get further insight into my
character.
After you've completed the character biography, think about
your character's professional life, personal life, and private life.
Focus on the relationships that occur during the screenplay.
KNOW YOUR CHARACTER.
Building a
Character
"Amos Charles Dundee is a tall, broad-shouldered,
rawboned man in his late thirties. Opinion-
ated, strong-willed, quick-tempered, he is
a realist who sees the world exactly as it
is and can't get enough of it. An artist,
perhaps a sculptor of battle, who knows that
for him death is as close as the owl perched
upon the thigh of ι. It is a very per-
sonal world to Amos Charles Dundee and win,
lose, or draw, he will play it according to
his needs and wants. Dundee is a soldier. He
gives orders well and takes them badly. . . .
A wise man who can be a fool . . . who will go
his own way come hell or high water and so far
has yet to look back or regret . . . who so
far has yet to fail."
—Major Dundee Sam Peckinpah,
Oscar Saul
ien I first began writing screenplays, I had the good fortune of
hanging out with Sam Peckinpah during the time he was writing
The Wild Bunch. His niece, Deneen Peckinpah, and I had both
worked with Jean Renoir on the world premiere of his play Carola
when we were students at UC Berkeley. When she came to L.A. seek-
ing an acting career, she stayed with Sam at the beach.
Since I was just starting out writing screenplays, I was like a
sponge, absorbing as much as I could about the art and craft. It was
during those summer months that I was blessed to be around the
man who literally changed the style and impact of the Western film.
60 —SCREENPLAY—
I write a lot about this period and my relationship with Peckinpah
in Going to the Movies.
Sam was amazing—brilliant in his visual awareness, talkative
when he felt comfortable, and, of course, moody and self-destructive
when he was drinking too much or thought someone had gone be-
hind his back or broken their word to him.
Most of Sam's films deal with characters who are dedicated or
obsessed—take your pick—and caught in the maelstrom of chang-
ing times. He explored this ⊙, unchanged men in a changing
time, in most of his films: Ride the High Country (N. B. Stone),
Major Dundee (Oscar Saul), The Wild Bunch (Walon Green), The
Ballad of Cable Hogue (John Crawford and Edmund Penny), Straw
Dogs (David Zelag Goodman), The Getaway (Walter Hill), Junior
Bonner (Jeb Rosebrook), Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid (Rudy
Wurlitzer), and others.
When I first met him, I'd heard stories about his drunken antics,
the difficulties he had on the set with his crew, his sense of "perfec-
tionism," the conflicts he had with the studios and producers, so I
didn't really know what to expect. I found him to be tough and hon-
est, with a keen sensibility and understanding. He wasn't drinking
the "hard stuff," he said, only two beers a κ, and during our con-
versations I learned he had not made a film since Major Dundee,
four years earlier.
Cowritten with Oscar Saul, Dundee had been a traumatic expe-
rience for him. The studio had reneged on the contract and taken it
away from him, reçut it, and butchered it, even though he had "final
cut" built into his contract. The title music, by Mitch Miller's sing-
along gang, was absolutely ridiculous. In his words, it had been a
"personal disaster," and it was while working on Dundee that he got
the reputation of being "difficult"—meaning "unemployable" in
Hollywood vernacular. Charlton Heston, Deneen told me, had re-
turned his salary, and Peckinpah demanded that his name be taken
off the credits, but the studio refused. He wanted to reshoot the
⊨ ⊟ the way he had written it, but the studio said no.
In effect, he was fired from his own film. He couldn't get any work
after that and was only now being given a chance to rewrite and di-
rect The Wild Bunch by producer Phil Feldman.
— BUILDING A CHARACTER— 61
There were so many questions I wanted to ask him about writing
a screenplay: I wanted to find out how he created and built his char-
acters; what he looked for when he searched for a subject, or story,
to write about; if he artificially created the story's ⊖, or if it
was inherent in the story. The list went on and on, but I wanted to
be cool, so I asked him only a few questions at a time. Sam was open
and receptive and seemed to enjoy our conversations.
He always found great visual metaphors that reflected the indi-
cators of change and their impact upon the characters. I think that's
one of the ingredients Peckinpah brought to the contemporary
Western: He showed us bits and pieces of character that reflected
this ⊙ of not belonging, of being "outside" and behind the
times, and then wove these concepts into moments of visual action.
Ride the High Country opens with a lone rider, Joel McCrea, riding
into a town where a carnival is in full swing. Suddenly an antique
Model T turns the corner and the driver, dressed in a long coat and
goggles, starts honking angrily for McCrea to move out of the way.
Then a camel bursts into view, followed by a horse, and the two race
neck and neck to the finish line of a horse-and-camel race, the
camel winning by almost a full length. In the ⊨ ⊟ of
The Wild Bunch, William Holden offers his arm to an elderly lady
and helps her cross the street just before he and his gang rob the
bank as a Temperance Parade gets under way.
Late one afternoon, after Sam had finished his κ's writing on
The Wild Bunch, we were enjoying a beer and watching the sun set
when I asked how he structured his stories. He paused for a mo-
ment, then told me that he liked to "hang" his stories around a cen-
terpiece. Typically, he said, he would build the action up to a certain
event, about midway through the story, then let everything else be
the result of that event. In The Wild Bunch it is the train robbery,
done almost in total silence. It's a magnificent ⊟; once he
sets up the story and characters, everything leads to the train rob-
bery and the rest of the movie unfolds as a result of that ⊟.
We discussed it for a while, then he left the room and returned a
few minutes ε holding a script. It was the screenplay for Major
Dundee. "Take a look at it," he urged.
The story takes place right after the Civil War and traces
62 —SCREENPLAY —
Dundee's (Charlton Heston's) relentless quest to track down the
band of renegade Apaches and rescue the homesteader children
who had been taken hostage during the massacre that opens the
story. Dundee doesn't care how he does it, or the price he inflicts
upon others to achieve his goal. It's Dundee's obsession that drives
his character through the ⊚ story line. That, I discovered,
was his dramatic need. That's what his purpose was, his mission, the
engine that drove the story line.
I read Major Dundee over and over again, taking notes, liter-
ally studying it as if I were preparing for a final exam. It was an
incredible education. I began to see things: how Peckinpah struc-
tured and set up the story in the ⊨ ⊟, how he estab-
lished the characters visually, then built the story to highlight the
centerpiece—the ambush by the Apaches.
When I was making documentaries for David Wolper, I under-
stood the importance of having a strong ⊨ ⊕ or ⊟,
something that will immediately grab the attention of the reader or
audience. Major Dundee opens with a Halloween party at an iso-
lated ranch on the Western frontier just before the end of the Civil
War; the music's playing, the people are dancing, laughing, and hav-
ing a good time, while costumed children run around outside, play-
ing games. Then Sam cuts from the painted face of a child playing
cowboys and Indians to the face of an Apache brave painted for war.
Amid the music and dance, as children giggle and scream in joy and
mock fright, the Apaches launch their attack, killing everyone and
everything except the male children and the horses.
It's a remarkable ⊨, something I call "pure Peckinpah."
The contradiction between the images of the children in their
Halloween costumes and the painted faces of the Apaches killing
and scalping was horrifying. I marveled, too, at how Peckinpah intro-
duces Major Dundee. The way he's described in the stage directions
tells us everything we need to know: "Opinionated, strong-willed,
quick-tempered__ An artist, perhaps a sculptor of battle, who knows
that for him death is as close as the owl perched upon the thigh
of ι. ...He gives orders well and takes them badly.... A wise
man who can be a fool... who will go his own way come hell or high
water... who so far has yet to fail."
— BUILDING A CHARACTER— 63
I wanted to write characters like that. I wanted to enrich the
characters in my screenplays so that they were fully formed and re-
alized, multidimensional, real people in real situations. So I started
asking myself questions: How do you take the idea of a person that
exists in a scrambled, fragmented form and make him or her into a
living, flesh-and-blood person, a person you can relate to and iden-
tify with? How do you go about putting life into your characters?
How do you build character?
As soon as I phrased the questions I knew there was no definitive
answer—because building character is part of the mystery and
magic of the creative process. It is an ongoing, never-⊥, con-
tinuing practice. In order to really solve the problem of character,
it's essential to go into your characters and build the foundations
and fabric of their lives, then add ingredients that will heighten and
expand the portrait of who they are.
So, I kept asking myself: What makes a good character? What is
character? To find the answer, I needed to figure out what qualities
we all have in common.
When you think about it, underneath this skin of ours we're re-
ally the η, you and I; certain things unite us. We share the η
needs, the η wants, the η fears and insecurities; we want to
be loved, have people like us, be successful, happy, and healthy.
When I went back to reread Major Dundee with this in mind, I
started analyzing the characters in terms of their individual needs
and wants.
Reading it from this perspective, I saw four things, four essen-
tial qualities that seemed to go into the making of good charac-
ters: (1), the characters have a strong and defined dramatic need;
(2), they have an individual point of view; (3), they personify an
attitude; and (4), they go through some kincurf change, or transfor-
mation.
Those four elements, those four qualities, make up good char-
acter. Using that as a starting point, I saw that every main, or major,
character has a strong dramatic need. Dramatic need is defined as
what your main characters want to win, gain, get, or achieve during
the course of your screenplay. The dramatic need is what drives your
characters through the story line. It is their purpose, their mission,
Ch:
64 —SCREENPLAY —
their motivation, driving them through the ⊚ action of the
story line.
In most cases you can express the dramatic need in a sentence or
two. It is usually simple and can be stated through a line of ⊘,
if you choose; or it does not have to be expressed at all. But you, as
writer, must know your character's dramatic need.
In Thelrna & Louise, the dramatic need is to escape safely to
Mexico; that's what drives these two characters through the entire
story line. In Cold Mountain, Inman's dramatic need is to return
home, and Ada's is to survive and adapt to the conditions around
her. In Lord of the Rings, as mentioned, it's to carry the ring to
Mount Doom and destroy it in the fire that created it.
In Apollo 13 (William Broyles Jr. and Al Reinert), the dramatic
need is to return the astronauts safely to earth. ⊮ didn't start out
that way. When the story began, the dramatic need of Apollo 13, the
astronaut's mission, was to walk on the moon; but that changed
when the oxygen tank blew. The dramatic question then became
not whether they were going to land on the moon but whether they
would be able to survive and return safely to Earth.
There are times that the dramatic need will change during the
course of the story. If your character's dramatic need does change, it
will usually occur at ⊗ Point I, the true ⊤ of your story.
In Theltna & Louise, Louise's killing Harlan at ⊗ Point I forces
the action into a new direction; instead of spending a weekend
in the mountains, Thelma and Louise have now become fugitives
from the law. Their dramatic need is to escape. In Dances With
Wolves (⊯ Blake), John Dunbar's (Kevin Costner's) dramatic
need is to escape from the lunacy of the Civil War and go to the
farthermost point of the frontier. But when he finally reaches his
goal, Fort Sedgewick—⊗ Point I—his dramatic need changes,
and now he must learn how to adapt to the land and establish a re-
lationship with the Sioux.
What is your main character's dramatic need? Can you define it
in a few words? Articulate it? If you don't know your character's dra-
matic need, who does? You must know it. If you like, you can estab-
lish dramatic needs for other characters in the screenplay. The
— BUILDING A CHARACTER — 65
dramatic need is the engine that powers the character through the
story line.
The second thing that makes good character is point of view.
Point of view is defined as the way a person sees, or views, the world.
Every person has an individual point of view. Point of view is a be-
lief system, and as we know, what we believe to be true is true.
There's an ancient Hindu scripture titled the Yoga Vasistha that
states, "The World is as you see it." That means that what's inside our
head—our thoughts, feelings, emotions, memories—is reflected
outside, in our everyday experience. It is our mind, how we see the
world, that determines our experience. As one Great Being puts it:
"You are the baker of the bread you eat."
Point of view shades and colors the way we see the world. Have
you ever heard phrases like: "Life is unfair," "You can't fight City
Hall," "All life is a game of chance," "You can't teach an old dog new
tricks," "Life is unlimited opportunity," "You make your own luck,"
or "Success is based on who you know"? These are all points of
view. We all have points of view, singular and unique, individual to
the personal experience and expression of each person. It should
be mentioned that a point of view is acquired through personal ex-
perience.
If your character is a parent, she/he could reflect a "parent's"
point of view. Or he/she could be a student and view the world from
a "student's" point of view. A housewife has a specific point of view.
So does a criminal, terrorist, cop, doctor, lawyer, rich man, poor
man—all present individual and unique points of view.
Do you know what your character's point of view is?
Is your character an environmentalist? A humanist? A racist?
Someone who believes in fate, destiny, and astrology? Does your
character believe in voodoo or witchcraft, esi* that the future can be
revealed through a medium or psychic? Does your character believe
that the limitations we confront are self-imposed, like Neo in The
7
Matrix . Does your character put his faith in doctors, lawyers, The
Wall Street Journal, The New York Tiniest His/her belief in Time,
People, Newsweek, and the λ news?
Point of view is an individual and independent belief system. I
66 —SCREENPLAY —
believe in God. That's a point of view. Or, I don't believe in God.
That's also a point of view. Or, I don't know whether there is a God
or not; that's also a point of view. All three statements are true
within the individual fabric of the character. There is no right or
wrong here, no good or bad, no judgment, justification, or evalua-
tion. Point of view is neither right nor wrong; it is as singular and
distinctive as a rose on a rosebush. No two leaves, no two flowers, no
two people are ever the η.
The Native Americans believe the Earth is a living being.
Therefore, all living things on this planet are part of Mother Earth,
whether a human, tree, rock, animal, stream, or flower. All life is sa-
cred. That's a point of view.
Your character's point of view may be that the indiscriminate
slaughtering of dolphins and whales is morally wrong because they
are two of the most intelligent species on the planet, maybe smarter
than man. Your character supports that point of view by participat-
ing in demonstrations and wearing T-shirts with Save the Whales
and Dolphins on it.
Look for ways your characters can support and dramatize their
points of view. Knowing your characters' points of view becomes a
good way to generate ⊖. If your characters believe in luck, they
believe that there's a chance they can win the lottery. But anyone who
believes that it's "fixed" is not going to waste a dollar on a pick.
In The Shawshank Redemption, there's a short ⊕ between
Andy and Red that reveals the difference in their points of view.
After almost twenty years in Shawshank Prison, Red is cynical be-
cause, in his eyes, the concept of hope is simply a four-letter word.
His spirit has been so crushed by the prison system that he angrily
declares to Andy, "Hope is a dangerous thing. Drives a man insane.
It's got no place here. Better get used to the idea." And it is Red's
emotional journey that leads him to the understanding that "hope
is a good thing." The film ends on a note of hope, with Red breaking
his parole and riding the bus to meet Andy in Mexico: "I hope I can
make it across the border. I hope to see my friend and shake his
hand. I hope the Pacific is as blue as it has been in my dreams __I
hope"
-BUILDING A CHARACTER — 67
Andy has a different point of view; he believes that "there are
things in this world not carved out of gray stone, that there's a small
place inside of us they can never lock away. Hope." And that's what
keeps Andy going in prison, that's what makes him sacrifice a week
of his life in solitary, "the hole," just so he can listen to an aria from
a Mozart opera.
The third thing that makes good character is attitude. Attitude is
defined as a manner or opinion, and is a way of acting or feeling
that reveals a person's personal opinion. An attitude, differentiated
from a point of view, is an intellectual decision, so it can, and prob
ably will, be classified by a judgment: right or wrong, good or bad,
positive or negative, angry or happy, cynical or naive, superior or
inferior, liberal or conservative, optimistic or pessimistic. Being
"right" all the time is an attitude; so is being "macho." Voicing a po
litical opinion is also an attitude; just look at the many opinions
about the war in Iraq. In the η way, have you ever gone into a
store to buy something and found yourself dealing with a sales
person who does not want to be there, has negative energy and
thinks he/she is superior to you? That's an attitude. Have you ever
walked into a fancy restaurant not wearing the "right" clothes? It's
that kind of judgment, where someone is convinced he's right and
you're wrong; judgments, opinions, evaluations all stem from atti
tude. It's an intellectual decision one makes. Understanding your
character's attitude allows him/her to reach out and touch his/her
humanity in an individual way. Is he/she enthusiastic about his/
her life and job, or unhappy? We all know people who express dif
ferent parts of themselves through their attitude; someone who
feels the world owes them a living, or blames their lack of success
on "who you know." /
The Truth About Cats and Dogs (Audrey Wells) is a delightful ro-
mantic comedy that is entirely based on the characters' attitudes.
Abby (Janeane Garofalo) is a woman who lives by her attitude; her
opinion is that all men want in a woman is a pretty face and a great
body. This attitude governs her behavior throughout the entire film.
And Nora (Uma Thurman) takes it for granted that she's not very
bright. She thinks of herself as the "dumb blonde" with the heart of
68 —SCREENPLAY —
gold. Both Abby and Nora have to learn that their attitudes are not
their real selves. Their journey through the film is to accept them-
selves as they truly are.
Sometimes it's difficult to separate point of view from attitude.
Many of my students struggle to define these two qualities, but I
tell them it really doesn't matter; when you're creating the basic
core of your character, you're taking one large ball of wax and,
in this case, pulling it apart into four separate pieces. The parts
and the whole, right? Who cares whether one part is the point of
view and another the attitude? It doesn't make any difference; the
parts and the whole are really the η thing. So if you're unsure
about whether a particular character trait is a point of view or an
attitude, don't worry about it. Just separate the concepts in your
own mind.
The fourth element that makes up good character is change, or
transformation. Does your character change during the course of
your screenplay? If so, what is the change? Can you define it?
Articulate it? Can you trace the emotional arc of the character from
the ⊤ to the end? In The Truth About Cats and Dogs, both
characters undergo a change that brings about a new awareness of
who they are. Abby's final acceptance that she is really loved for who
she is completes the ⊠ of the change.
In The Shawshank Redemption, Andy has endured prison life for
some nineteen years when he learns who actually murdered his wife
and her lover. When the warden refuses to help him get a new trial
and Tommy, the witness, is killed, he realizes the warden will never
let him out. Andy had entered prison considering himself guilty,
even though he hadn't killed his wife and her lover; he was guilty,
yes, as Red tells him, not of pulling the trigger, but of being a bad
husband. Now that he has served "his time," he realizes the moment
has come for him to be free once again. It is his redemption. As we
learn ε, he's been preparing to escape for years.
Having a character change during the course of the screenplay is
not a requirement if it doesn't fit your character. But transforma-
tion, change, seems to be an essential aspect of our humanity, espe-
cially at this time in our culture. I think we're all a little like Melvin
(Jack Nicholson) in As Good as It Gets (Mark Andrus and James L.
— BUILDING A CHARACTER — 69
Brooks). Melvin may be complex and fastidious as a person, but his
dramatic need is expressed toward the end of the film when he says,
"When I'm with you I want to be a better person." I think we all
want that. Change, transformation, is a constant of life, and if
you can impel some kind of emotional change within your charac-
ter, it creates an arc of behavior and adds another dimension to
who he/she is. If you're unclear about the character's change, take
ie time to write an essay in a page or so, charting his or her emo-
tional arc.
Again, it's important to remember that when you're writing a
screenplay, the main character must be active; she must cause things
to happen, not let things happen to her. It's okay if she reacts to inci-
ients or events some of the time, but if she is always reacting, she
becomes passive, weak, and that's when the character seems to dis-
appear off the page. Minor characters appear more interesting than
le main character and seem to have more life and flamboyance.
Film is behavior; action is character and character, action; what a
Person does is who he is, not what he says.
Thelma & Louise is a good example. The script sets up the two
romen by showing who they are. Louise is unmarried, a waitress,
id has a boyfriend, Jimmy, a musician, who's playing a gig on the
road and hasn't called her once in three weeks. She's upset and re-
solves that she's not going to be home when he returns. So she de-
cides to go to a friend's cabin in the mountains without telling him
vhere she's gone. When he does arrive home, she just won't be
1ère. He'll get a taste of how it feels. That's the backstory.
Thelma, on the other hand, appears to be a "ditzy" housewife.
Her kitchen is a mess, and her "breakfast" consists of little nibbles
>m a frozen candy bar, which she puts back in the freezer only to
vhip out again for another bite. What she does and how her kitchen
looks reveal an aspect of her character; we see who she is by what she
ioes, her actions.
Her husband, Darryl (Christopher McDonald), an arrogant,
egotistical fool, is a high school hero whose best years are behind
him. He treats Thelma with so little respect that she has to lie to him
so she can go away for the weekend with her friend. Even then, her
lilt influences her to leave something in the microwave for him
70 —SCREENPLAY—
when he comes home from work. You get what you settle for in a re-
lationship, Louise tells her. That's the life and relationship that
Thelma has chosen for herself.
Act I sets up their relationship. When they pull into the parking
lot of the Silver Bullet bar, during the first ten pages, we learn more
about them in terms of their relationship with the men in their
lives. By the time Harlan tries to rape Thelma, at the end of Act I,
their characters have already been established. When Louise pulls
the trigger, killing Harlan, their lives and destiny change. That's ⊗
Point I. This incident makes them two fugitives on the run and alters
and defines their characters.
Killing Harlan is the incident that really determines their char-
acters. Their flight to Mexico becomes a journey of insight and self-
discovery that eventually leads to their deaths. Their destiny has
been determined by their actions, and their actions have illumi-
nated who they really are. They have burned their bridges and liter-
ally "run out of world," as writer Callie Khouri says. There is no way
back. You can't step into the η river twice.
The essence of character is action—what a person does is who
he is. A friend of mine had the opportunity of flying to New York
for a business interview. She had mixed feelings about going. The
interview was for a prestigious and high-salaried job she wanted;
but she didn't know whether she was willing to move to New York.
She wrestled with the problem for more than a week, then finally
decided to go, packed her bags, and drove to the airport. But when
she parked her car at the airport, she "accidentally" locked her keys
inside the car—with the motor running. It's a perfect example of
action revealing character; it told her what she knew all along—she
didn't want to go to New York!
A ⊕ like that can illustrate a lot about your character.
Is your character late, or early, or right on time for appoint-
ments? Does your character react to authority the way Woody Allen
does in Annie Hall when he tears up his driver's license in front of a
policeman? Every action, every word of ⊘, every individual
character trait expands our knowledge and comprehension of the
character.
— BUILDING A CHARACTER— 71
One of Henry James's theories is termed the Theory of
Illumination. James said that if your character occupies the center of
a circle and all the other characters he interacts with surround him,
then each time a character interacts with the main character, the
other characters can reveal, or illuminate, different aspects of the
main character. The analogy he used was walking into a darkened
room and turning on the floor lamps located in each corner. Each
lamp illuminates a different part of the room. In the η way, dif-
ferent aspects of your main character can be illuminated by what
other people say about him or her. This is how we know that Bob
Harris, the Bill Murray character in Lost in Translation, is a movie
star: He's sitting at the bar, alone, when two guys start telling him
how much they loved his movies, and wonder whether he did all his
own stunts. In that one exchange, we learn he is an action star, one
whose career seems to be on the decline.
Sometimes during the writing process you'll find that what
doesn't work often shows you what does. Once one of my students
was writing a drama, complete with unhappy, or "tragic," ⊥.
But suddenly, at the ⊤ of the third act, his characters started
acting "funny." Gag lines started coming out, and the ⊡ be-
came funny, not serious. Every time he sat down to write, the hu-
mor just poured out; he couldn't stop it. He became frustrated,
finally giving up in despair.
He was almost apologetic when he came to me. In all honesty, he
explained, he didn't know what to do. I suggested that he sit down
and start writing, that he let the words and ⊘ come out as
they wanted to. If it's funny, let it be funny, I told nim; just write and
complete the third act. Then he could see what he had. If it was
funny all the way through and he didn't like it, all he had to do was
put it in a drawer somewhere, file it away, and then go back and
write the third act the way he'd wanted to in the first place.
He did it, and it worked. He threw out the comedy version of the
third act, then wrote it serious, the way he wanted to. The comedy
was something he had to do, something he had to get out. It was his
way of avoiding completing the screenplay. Phil Alden Robinson,
writer-director of Field of Dreams (and many other films), told me
72 —SCREENPLAY —
that the η thing had happened to him, and that the exercise of
writing it out, even though it might be totally wrong for the screen-
play, was one of the most important things he learned from reading
this book.
Many times, writers on the verge of completing a project want to
hold on to it and not finish it. After all, what are you going to do af-
ter it's complete? Have you ever read a book and hated to finish it?
You postpone reading the last few chapters or pages because you
want to hang on to the pleasure it has given you. We all do it. Just
recognize it as a natural phenomenon, and don't worry about it.
If this happens to you, simply write the material the way it
comes out. See what happens. Writing is always an adventure; you
never really know what's going to come out.
When you're writing you'll find it may take you about sixty pages
before you make contact with your characters, before they start
talking to you, tell you what they want to do and say. Once you've
made contact and established a connection with them, they'll take
over. Let them do what they want. Trust your ability to exercise the
choice of action and direction during the "words on paper" stage.
Just don't expect your characters to start talking to you from
page one. It doesn't work that way. Even if you've done your creative
research and know your characters, you might have to experience
some resistance before you break through and get in touch with
them.
⊘ is really a function of character. If you know your char-
acter, your ⊘ may very well flow easily with the unfolding of
your story. Many people worry about their ⊘: It's awkward,
or stilted; all the characters sound alike; they're constantly explain-
ing things. Writing ⊘ is a learning process, an act of coordi-
nation. The more you do it, the easier it gets.
⊘ serves two main purposes: Either it moves the story
forward, or it reveals information about the main character. If the
⊘ does not serve either one of these functions, then take it
out. It's okay for the first sixty pages of your first draft to be filled
with awkward ⊘. Don't worry about it—the last sixty pages
will be smooth and functional because, again, the more you do it,
— BUILDING A CHARACTER — 73
the easier it gets. And afterward you can go back and smooth out the
⊘ in the first part of the screenplay.
The end result of all your work and research and preparation
and thinking time will be characters who are authentic and believ-
able, real people in real situations.
And that's what it's all about.
^
Story and
Character
"You don't throw a whole life away just
'cause it's banged up a little."
—Seabiscuit
Gary Ross
One of my favorite screenwriting exercises when I was teaching at
Sherwood Oaks Experimental College was "creating a character."
The entire class joined in creating a character, and out of that
character came the idea for a story. Everyone participated, throwing
out ideas and suggestions, and gradually a character began forming
and we started shaping a story. It took a couple of hours, and we
usually ended up with a solid character, and sometimes a pretty
good idea for a movie.
We had a good time, and it began a process that seemingly man-
aged to parallel the symmetrical chaos of the creative experience.
Creating a character is a process, and until you've done it, until
you've experienced it, you're more than likely to stumble around
awkwardly like a blind man in a fog complaining about how things
aren't where they used to be.
There are really only two ways to approach writing a screenplay.
One is to get an idea, then create your characters to fit that idea.
Three people stealing moon rocks from NASA in Houston is an ex-
ample of this. You take the idea, then "pour" your characters into it:
a down-and-out jockey getting an opportunity to ride in the Santa
Anita Handicap, as in Seabiscuit; or a boxer getting the opportunity
— STORY AND CHARACTER— 75
, fight the Heavyweight Champion of the World, as in Rocky; or a
man holding up a bank to get money for a sex-change operation, as
in Dog κ Afternoon; or an embittered Civil War mercenary cap-
tured by his enemies and transformed by their way of life, as in The
Last Samurai; or a man setting out to break the Water Speed Record,
as in The Run. In this scenario, you create the characters to fit the
idea.
Another way to approach a screenplay is by creating a character,
then letting a need, an action, and, ultimately, a story emerge out of
that character. Virginia Woolf in The Hours is a perfect example
of this: a woman seeking a creative outlet in a stifling life. So is Alice,
in Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore. Roman Polanski had an idea
about a survivor during the Holocaust, and out of this idea emerged
The Pianist. He found the memoirs of a survivor, and together with
Ron Harwood forged a screenplay that was close to his own per-
sonal experience. Jane Fonda had an idea about a Vietnam veteran
coming home, expressed it to her associates, and Coming Home was
created. Sofia Coppola wanted to write a screenplay about loneli-
ness, so she created a situation, then developed her characters, and
Lost in Translation came into being. Create a character and you'll
create a story.
How do we go about creating a character? We start from scratch.
I ask a series of questions and the class responds with answers. I take
the answers and shape them into a character. And, out of that char
acter, a story emerges.
Sometimes it works beautifully; we come up with an interesting
character and a good dramatic premise for a movie. Other times it
doesn't work at all. But considering the limited time we have and
the circumstances of the class, we don't do too badly.
The following is an edited and abridged version of a class that
happened to work well. The questions I asked went from general to
specific, from context to content. When you read it, you might want
to substitute your own answers for the ones we selected and make
the story your own.
"Let's create a character," I tell the class. "I'll ask questions, you
supply the answers."
They agree to that, amid some laughter.
76 —SCREENPLAY —
"Okay," I say, "how are we going to start?"
"Boston," a guy booms out from the back of the room.
"Boston?"
"Yeah," he says. "He's from Boston!"
"No," several women yell. "She's from Boston!"
"That's okay with me," I say, then ask if it's okay with everyone
else. They agree.
"Okay." Our subject is a woman from Boston. That's our starting
point.
"How old is she?" I ask.
"Twenty-four." Several people agree.
"No," I say. Late twenties or early thirties. Why? someone asks. I
reply that when you're writing a screenplay, you're writing it for
someone, for a star, someone who is "bankable." Right now, I would
think of Julia Roberts, Cameron Diaz, Charlize Theron, Nicole
Kidman, Halle Berry, Renee Zellweger. We move on.
"What's her name?" I ask.
The name Sarah comes into my head, and we go with it.
"Sarah what?"
Sarah Townsend, I decide. A name is a name.
Our starting point becomes Sarah Townsend, late twenties or
early thirties, from Boston. She is our subject.
Then we create the context.
Let's get her personal history. For the sake of simplicity, I'm go-
ing to give one answer to each question I ask. In class there are sev-
eral answers given and I select only one. Feel free to disagree with
them if you want; or make up your own answers, create your own
character, your own story.
"What about her parents?" I ask. "Who's her father?"
A doctor, we decide.
Her mother?
A doctor's wife.
"What's her father's name?"
Lionel Townsend.
What's his background?
We toss a lot of ideas around and finally end up with this: Lionel
Townsend belongs to the upper strata of Boston society. Wealthy,
— STORY AND CHARACTER— 77
conservative, he attended medical school at Boston University, then
went to St. Louis to do his internship at Washington University.
What about Sarah's mother? What was she before she became a
doctor's wife?
A teacher. "Elizabeth's her name," someone remarks. Good.
Elizabeth might have been teaching in St. Louis when she met
Lionel, and she continues teaching grade school during the time
he's completing his medical school education. When he begins his
medical practice back in Boston, she gets pregnant and gives up her
teaching.
"When did Sarah's parents get married?" I ask.
If Sarah's in her late twenties, early thirties, her parents must
have married in the early '70s, either during or after the Vietnam
War. They've been married more than thirty years. "How'd you fig-
ure that out?" someone asks.
"Subtraction," I reply.
What's the relationship between mother and father?
Consistent, and possibly routine. For what it's worth, I add,
Sarah's mother's a Capricorn, her father's a Libra.
When was Sarah born?
Early or mid '70s. April, an Aries. Does she have any brothers or
sisters? No, she's an only child.
many answers. If you don't agree with them, change them to create
your own character.
What kind of childhood did she have?
A lonely one. She wanted brothers and sisters. She was alone
most of the time. She probably had a good relationship with her
mother until she was in her teens. Then, as always between parent
and child, things went haywire.
What's the relationship between Sarah and her father?
Good, but strained. Possibly he wanted a son instead of a daugh-
ter, and to please her father, Sarah became a tomboy. Possibly Sarah
is always trying to find a way to please her father, to earn his love
and affection. Becoming a tomboy helps with this problem, but cre-
ates another one by antagonizing her mother. This will figure ε
in her relationships with men.
Remember, this is a process. For every question asked there are
many answers.
78 —SCREENPLAY —
Sarah's family is like all other families, but we're sketching in as
much detailed ⊖ as we can for dramatic purposes.
We're ⊤ to grasp the dynamics of the Townsend family.
So far, there's not been too much disagreement, so we continue to
explore the context of Sarah Townsend.
I remark that many young women search for their father or for
father figures throughout their lives, much in the way that many
men search for their mothers in the women they meet. It's interest-
ing to use this as a foundation of character. Not that it happens all
the time, ⊮ does happen; therefore let's be aware of it so that we
can possibly use it to our advantage.
There's a lot of discussion about this. I explain that when you're
creating a character, you have to compile nuances that you can ei-
ther use or not. I tell the class this exercise is based on trial and er-
ror: We're going to use what works and discard what doesn't.
Her mother probably educates Sarah in the ways of the world
and, no doubt, cautions her about men. She might tell her daughter,
"You can never trust a man. They're only after one thing—your
body." Or, "They don't like a woman who's too smart." And so on
and so on. What Sarah's mother tells her may be true for some of
you, or it may not be, I tell the class; use your own experience in cre-
ating a character.
Perhaps at an early age Sarah expressed the desire to become a
doctor, like her father, and her mother cautioned her against that,
saying, "It's a long, tough grind." Maybe her mother is a person who
wants to be right all the time, or a person for whom looking good,
appearance, is everything, like Mary Tyler Moore's character in
Ordinary People (Alvin Sargent). Let's move on. What kind of high
school experience did Sarah have?
Active, social, the beginnings of rebellion. She made good grades
without having to work very hard for them. She had many friends,
and was a leader in rebelling against many of the school's restrictive
policies. Her music tastes became eclectic and her parents endured
these years with patience but not too much understanding.
Most young people rebel, and Sarah's no exception. She gradu-
ates and goes to Vassar, which pleases her mother, but decides she
wants to major in political science because she wants to help change
— STORY AND CHARACTER— 79
"the system." This, of course, upsets her mother. Sarah is socially ac-
tive, and has an affair with a graduate student in political science.
Her actions, based on her rebellious nature, become part of her
character—she has a unique point of view, a determined attitude.
She graduates from college with a degree in political science.
Now what?
She moves to New York to get a job. Her father supports her in
this move. Her mother does not; she's upset. She believes Sarah's not
doing the things she "should" be doing—finding a stable career,
possibly marrying and settling down, as befits an intelligent young
woman from Boston.
Remember, I add, drama is ⊖. We're searching for ways to
generate tension in our material. I explain that the relationship be-
tween mother and daughter may be useful during the screenplay, or
it may not be. Let's see whether it works or not before we make any
decision about it, I advise. The writer always operates from the po-
sition of choice and responsibility.
Sarah's move to New York is a major crossroads in our crea-
tion of character. So far, we've focused on the context of Sarah
Townsend. Now we're going to be creating content.
Let's define the exterior forces working on Sarah. Here's the
diagram:
CHARACTER
I-------- '----------- 1
INTERIOR EXTERIOR
17 11
character biography professional personal private
dramatic need, point of view (work) (marital) (alone)
attitude, change
Let's explore the exterior forces working on Sarah.
At this point, someone suggests that we create a story using a war
as backdrop or as the context of the story. We talk about that for a
bit. I ask, Which war? The Vietnam War, the Gulf War, the war in
Iraq (even the Korean War or World War II)—all of them, no mat-
ter in what period of history they occurred, would lend some back-
ground tension to our story. We discuss this.
80 —SCREENPLAY —
We decide it's a good idea, and I suggest that we could use the
Vietnam War as the background of the story. All it means is chang-
ing some of the background events and dates working on Sarah. We
decide to try it and see what happens. The events we've created are
still valid to some degree, and will not have to be changed radically.
We change what we need to, get our time lines straight, and decide
that Sarah leaves college and moves to New York in the early '70s.
So, we research the times.
Slowly, the story begins to take shape. Sarah arrives in New York
City in the spring in the early '70s. What does she do? Gets an apart-
ment. Her father sends her some money each month, and does not
tell her mother; Sarah prefers it that way. Then what?
She gets a job. What kind of job does she get?
Let's discuss that. We know basically the kind of person Sarah is:
upper-⊦-class, independent, free-spirited, rebellious, on her
own for the first time and loving it. Committed to herself and her
life. Let's start getting more specific.
New York, 1972. What are the exterior forces working on Sarah?
Here's where some research would come in handy.
Nixon is in the White House. The Vietnam War still rages; the
country is in a state of nervous exhaustion. Nixon goes to China.
McGovern's gaining in the presidential primaries and there's hope
"he might be the one." George Wallace is gunned down in a shop-
ping center. The Godfather is in release. Chinatown is in production.
What kind of job would fit Sarah dramatically?
A job working for a political campaign. Someone suggests Sarah
could be working at the McGovern headquarters in New York. This
is a point of discussion. (If we wanted to make this a contemporary
story, using the war in Iraq as a background force, we could easily
have Sarah working for John Kerry's campaign. The context would
be the η, only the content would change.) We talk about it.
Finally, I explain that for me the job satisfies her rebellious nature; it
reflects her first independent step away from home. It satisfies her
activist political stance and draws upon her background as a politi-
cal science major in college, and it gives her parents something to
disapprove of—both of them. We're going after ⊖, right?
— STORY AND CHARACTER— 81
From now on, through a process of trial and error, we're going to
searching for a ⊙, or dramatic premise: something that will
move Sarah in a particular direction to generate a dramatic action.
The subject of a screenplay, remember, is an action and a character.
We've got the character; now we've got to find the action.
This is a hit-and-miss operation. Things are suggested, changed,
rearranged; mistakes are made. I'll say one thing, then contradict
myself in the next sentence. Don't worry about it. We're after a spe-
cific result—a story. We've simply got to let ourselves find it.
New York. 1972. An election year. Nixon versus McGovern.
Sarah Townsend is working for the McGovern campaign as a paid
staff member. Who are her parents voting for?
What does Sarah discover about politics from her experience in
the campaign?
That politics aren't necessarily clean or idealistic. Perhaps she
discovers something illegal going on—would she do anything
about it?
Maybe something happens, I suggest, that creates a major politi-
cal issue. Perhaps a friend of hers, someone she sees fairly regularly,
resists the draft and flees to Canada. She might become involved in
the movement to bring home the draft resisters.
Remember, we're building a character, creating context and con-
tent, searching for a story that will soon appear. Create a character
and a story will emerge.
Someone says Sarah's father has a different point of view from
hers—he feels draft resisters are traitors to their country and should
be shot. Sarah would argue the opposite: that the war is wrong,
immoral and illegal, and that the people responsible for it, the
politicians, should be the ones taken out and shot.
Suddenly, an amazing thing happens in the room. The air be-
comes tense, heavy with energy, as the fifty or so people in the class
become polarized in their attitudes and points of view about some-
thing that happened several years before they were even born.
Then someone yells out, "Watergate!" Of course! June 1972. Is
that a dramatic event that would affect Sarah?
Yes. Sarah would be outraged; it is an event that will generate, or
82 —SCREENPLAY—
stimulate, a dramatic response in her. It is a potential hook in our
as-yet uncreated, untold, and undefined story. This is a creative
process, remember, and confusion and contradiction are part of it.
Two and a half years ε, Nixon is gone, the war is almost over,
and the issue of amnesty becomes paramount. Sarah, by virtue of
her political involvement, has seen and experienced an event first-
hand that will guide her to a form of dramatic ⊡, as yet un-
known. Sarah, we all realize, is a politically motivated person. Does
it work? is my question. Yes.
Would Sarah be motivated enough to enter law school and be-
come an attorney? I ask.
Everybody responds and we have a lot of discussion about this.
Several members of the class don't think it works; they can't relate
to it. That's okay—we're writing a screenplay. We need a character
who is larger than life; I can see several actresses as the lead: Renee
Zellweger, Scarlett Johansson, Charlize Theron. As the cliché goes,
"It's commercial," whatever that means.
When I was working at Cinemobile back in the '70s, the first
question my boss, Fouad Said, asked me about a script was "What's
it about?" The second question was "Who's going to star in it?" And
at the time I always answered the η thing: Paul Newman, Steve
McQueen, Clint Eastwood, Jack Nicholson, Dustin Hoffman,
Robert Redford, etc. (Today, it would be Tom Cruise, Tom Hanks,
Keanu Reeves, Matt Damon, etc.) That satisfied him. You're not
writing a screenplay in order to paper your walls with it. You're
writing it, I hope, to sell! And to do that you need a name, a star, es-
pecially in today's market.
You may like seeing a woman attorney from Boston as the main
character in a movie or you may not. My only comment is that in
this exercise, it works!
To me, Sarah goes to law school for a specific reason—to help
change the political system! A woman attorney is a good, dramatic
choice. Does being a lawyer fit her character? Yes. Let's follow it out,
see what happens.
If Sarah is practicing law, something could happen, an event or
incident that would spark the germ of a story. People start throwing
— STORY AND CHARACTER— 83
suggestions. A woman from Boston remarks that Sarah could
be involved in the busing issue. It's a very good idea. We're looking
for a dramatic premise, remember, something that will trigger a
creative response, a hook. Sarah could be working in military law to
aid the draft resisters, one person remarks. Another says she might
be working in the area of poverty law; or business law, or maritime
law, or labor relations. The life of an attorney offers a large range of
dramatic possibilities.
That's when it happens—someone mentions he recently heard a
news story about a nuclear power plant. That's it! I realize that's
what we've been searching for, the hook, the jackpot! Sarah could
become involved with the issue of nuclear power plant safety. This is
what we've been looking for, I say—an exciting, topical story issue;
the hook, or gimmick, of our story line. I commit to the choice of
Sarah's becoming an attorney.
Everyone now agrees. It's time to expand the exterior forces
working on Sarah and fashion our story into a dramatic ⊚
line.
Suppose we take the premise that Sarah Townsend becomes in-
volved with a movement to redesign safety standards at nuclear
power plants. Perhaps she discovers through an investigation that a
particular nuclear plant is unsafe. Politics being what they are,
maybe a politician supports the plant despite the fact that it is
unsafe.
This becomes our story's hook, or dramatic premise. (If you
don't agree, find your own hook!) Now we have to create the
specifics, the details, the content, and we'll have the subject for a
screenplay—an action and a character.
The screenplay would focus on the subject of nuclear power
plant safety, a major political issue.
What about the story?
Recently, the authorities closed a nuclear power plant in
Pleasanton, California, when they discovered it was situated less
than two hundred feet from a major fault line, the epicenter of an
earthquake. Can you imagine what would happen if an earthquake
crumbled a nuclear power plant? Try to put your mind around that!
84 —SCREENPLAY —
Let's create an opposite point of view. What would her father say
about nuclear power plants? "Nuclear energy must work for us," he
might say. "In our energy crisis we have to think ahead, develop an
energy source for the future; that future is nuclear energy. We have
to insure strict safety standards and create rules and guidelines
determined by Congress and the Atomic Energy Commission."
Now, as we all know, these guidelines might be based not on re-
ality, but on political necessity. This might be something Sarah acci-
dentally discovers—possibly a political favor that relates directly to
an unsafe condition at a nuclear power plant. But something's got
to happen that will trigger the incident that sets the story in motion.
Someone suggests that a person at the nuclear plant is contami-
nated and the case is brought to Sarah's law firm, and that's how she
becomes involved.
It's a very good suggestion! We all agree that this is the dramatic
story line we've been looking for: a worker becomes contaminated,
the case is brought to Sarah's firm, and she's put on the case. The
⊗ Point at the end of Act I would come when Sarah discovers that
the worker's contamination, his fatal illness, is caused by unsafe
safety procedures; when, despite threats and obstacles, she decides
to do something about it.
Act I is the Set- Up—we could open with the worker being con-
taminated. A visually dynamic ⊟: The man collapses on the
job and is carried out of the plant; an ambulance roars through the
streets of the city. Workers gather, protest; union officials meet and
decide to file suit for action that will defend the workers from un-
safe conditions within the plant.
By circumstances, situation, and design, Sarah is chosen to han-
dle the case. Union officials don't like it—she's inexperienced and
she's a woman (it's the late '70s, remember), and they don't think
she'll be able to handle the pressure. Sarah is determined to make
this case her own and prove everybody wrong. The authorities deny
her access to the plant, but she manages to explore it anyway and
learns firsthand about the unsafe conditions. A brick is thrown
through her window. Threats are made. The law firm can't help her.
She goes to political representatives, is given the runaround, told it's
the worker's fault for getting contaminated.
— STORY AND CHARACTER— 85
The media starts sniffing around. She learns there's a political
connection between safety standards and plant management.
Maybe, someone says, they discover some missing plutonium. It's a
good thought, but another story, I reply.
Sarah's uncovering the political connection becomes the ⊗
Pointât the end of Act I.
Act II is the Confrontation. It's that place in the story line where
Sarah confronts obstacle after obstacle in her investigation—so
many obstacles, in fact, that she suspects there's some kind of polit-
ical cover-up. She cannot ignore it any longer. We need to create
someone for her to talk to, confide in; maybe a love interest. Per-
haps she's involved with a recently separated or divorced attorney
with children. Their relationship becomes strained; he thinks she's
"crazy," "paranoid," "hallucinating," and they may not be able to
keep it together under the pressure of what she's going through. If
need be, here's where we can write a two-page essay about Sarah's
relationship with men. (How many times has she been in love?
What kind of person does she become involved with? And so on.)
She will experience ⊖ and resistance from members of her
law firm; she may be told she's going to be removed from the case if
she persists in her investigation. Her parents disagree with her, so
she'll have ⊖ there. The only people who will support and
help her are the people who work at the nuclear power plant; they
want her to succeed, to expose the unsafe working conditions. We
can use the media, and possibly create a reporter who believes she
should continue the investigation. He's going to get a story out of it.
Possibly there's a romantic link between them.
What about ⊗ Point IP. It must be some kind of incident,
episode, or event, remember, that hooks into the action and spins it
around in another direction.
Perhaps the reporter comes to her with definite proof that
there's some kind of political link involving many officials. She has
the facts in her hands—what is she going to do about it?
Act III is the ⊡. Sarah, with the help of plant workers
and the media, exposes political favoritism in the government's regu-
lation of nuclear power safety standards.
The plant is closed until new safety standards are established.
86 —SCREENPLAY—
Sarah is congratulated on her persistent, courageous, and victorious
stand.
There are different kinds of endings. In "up" endings, things
work out. Think of Erin Brockovich (Susannah Grant); Lord of
the Rings: The Return of the King; Whale Rider (Niki Caro); and The
Shawshank Redemption. In sad or ambiguous endings, it's up to
the audience to figure out what happens to the characters. For exam-
ple, Clarissa (Meryl Streep) in The Hours; Bob and Charlotte (Bill
Murray and Scarlett Johansson) in Lost in Translation; Kill Bill II. In
a "down" ⊥, not everything works out: American Beauty, The
Wild Bunch, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Bonnie and Clyde,
Thelma & Louise, Cold Mountain, Million Dollar Baby (Paul Haggis).
If you're ever in doubt about how to end your story, think in
terms of a positive ⊥. We're talking Hollywood here, and I
think the purpose of art, or entertainment, is to entertain. That
doesn't mean that everybody lives happily ever after, but that people
walk away from the theater uplifted, fulfilled, spiritually aligned
with their own humanity. As with Jason Bourne searching for the
fragments of his life in the The Bourne Supremacy, I believe the sil-
ver screen is a mirror, reflecting our thoughts, our hopes, our
dreams, our successes, our failures.
I once taught a workshop in Germany for some fifty writers, and
out of fifty stories, forty-six of them ended in death, suicide, may-
hem, and destruction. I told the students that there are better ways
to end a screenplay than to have your character caught, shot, cap-
tured, die, commit suicide, or be killed. The best ⊥ for your
story is an ⊥ that's real, believable, and true, as in Seabiscuit,
Magnolia, or Annie Hall. Titanic had a real, believable ⊥, in
spite of its romanticism. Though money is no criterion of success, it
is a criterion of just how many people saw the film and were enter-
tained and uplifted by it. And it's good to remember that the two
things that run Hollywood are fear and greed. Everybody wants to
be associated with a "winner." That's why weekend grosses are so
important in the movie industry.
Resolve your stories any way you want, but be true to your story
and characters; if possible, look for the positive, uplifting aspect of
— STORY AND CHARACTER— 87
the story. A case in point is Sideways. In my opinion, it is a beautiful
film, well made, well acted, well executed in every aspect, and it
leaves us with the hope and possibility that Miles and Maya (Paul
Giamatti and Virginia Madsen) may get back together. You might
disagree with that and say that life is not like that, but that's only a
point of view. We're not talking "life" here; we're talking movies, en-
tertainment.
Which brings us back to our story and Sarah Townsend. And
even though the story, at this point, is thin in terms of character
and action, we have enough information to start preparing our
screenplay.
Here, then, is our story: In the '70s, a young woman attorney dis-
covers unsafe working conditions at a nuclear power plant and, de-
spite political pressure and threats to her life, succeeds in exposing
political corruption. The plant is shut down until repairs are made
and safe conditions exist to protect the workers an4 the surround-
ing community.
Not too bad—considering it took us only a couple of hours to
create a character and a story! We even put a working title on it:
Precaution!
We have an interesting main character: Sarah Townsend; and an
action: uncovering a political scandal involving a nuclear power
plant. We have the four points needed to anchor our story line; the
⊥: Sarah exposing the political corruption; and the ⊤:
a nuclear power plant worker becoming contaminated. ⊗ Point I
is when they discover the unsafe conditions, and there's a good
source of potential ⊖ in Act II. The ⊗ Point at the end of
Act II comes when Sarah finds the proof that there is a definite po-
litical link to the unsafe conditions at the plant.
You may not agree with it or like it—it doesn't matter. The
purpose of the exercise is to set into motion a process, to show
you how creating a character can generate a dramatic action that
leads to a story. Many films, such as Erin Brockovich, are structured
this way.
As I said at the ⊤ of this chapter, there are two ways
to approach writing your screenplay: One is to create an idea, then
88 —CREENPLAY—
create your characters and "pour" your characters into the action.
The second way is to create a character and then let the action, the
story, emerge out of character. That's what we've just done.
It all came out of "a young woman from Boston."
Try it! See what happens.
Endings and
Beginnings
"Forget it, Jake. . . . It's Chinatown."
—Chinatown
Robert Towne
Question: What's the best way to open your screenplay?
What ⊕ or ⊟ would best capture the attention of the
reader or audience? Showing your character at work? In a tight or
tense dramatic action? A chase ⊕ while delivering pizza? In the
heat of passion in a relationship? Arriving at work? Preparing for a
κ in court? logging? In bed, alone, or having passionate sex with
someone? Driving down the long, lonely highway as κ breaks?
Playing golf? Arriving at the airport?
There are, of course, a myriad of different ways to begin your
screenplay. Up until now, we've discussed various abstract princi-
ples in writing a screenplay in terms of action and character. At this
point, we are leaving those general concepts behind and moving
into more specific and fundamental parts, or components, of the
screenplay.
Let's backtrack a little. All screenplays have a subject, and the
subject of a screenplay is defined as the action—what happens—
and the character—whom it happens to. There are two kinds of
action—physical action and emotional action; a car chase and a kiss.
We discussed character in terms of dramatic need, and broke the
concept of character down into two components—interior and ex-
terior; your character's life from birth up until the time the movie
90 —SCREENPLAY—
ends. We talked about building character and creating characteriza-
tion and introduced the idea of context and content.
Now what? Where do we go from here? What happens next?
Look at the paradigm:
Act I Act III
⊤ end
Confrontation ⊡
approx. approx. approx.
pp. 1-30 pp. 30-90 pp. 90-120
What do you see?
Direction, that's what; your story moves forward from point A
to point Z, from set-up to ⊡, and it doesn't matter whether
it's told in bits and pieces of memory, as in The Bourne Supremacy;
or in flashbacks, as in Cold Mountain, Annie Hall, or The English
Patient; or in a straight linear story line as in The Pianist, China-
town, Spider-Man 2 (Alvin Sargent), or The Matrix. Remember that
the definition of screenplay structure is "a linear progression
of related incidents, episodes, and events leading to a dramatic
⊡."
That means your story moves forward from ⊤ to end.
You've got approximately ten pages (about ten minutes) to establish
three things to your reader or audience: (1) who is your main char-
acter? (2) what is the dramatic premise—that is, what's your story
about? and (3) what is the dramatic situation—the circumstances
surrounding your story?
So—what's the best way to open your screenplay?
KNOW YOUR ⊥!
That's the first thing you have to know: What is the ⊥ of
your story? Not the specific shot, ⊕, or ⊟ of how the
script actually ends, but the ⊡. ⊡ means solution;
how is your story resolved? What is the solution? Does your charac-
— ENDINGS AND BEGINNINGS— 91
ter live or die? Get married or divorced? Win the race or not? Return
safely to Cold Mountain or not? Destroy the ring in the fires of
Mount Doom or not? Get away with the robbery or not? Go back
home or not? Find the criminals and bring them to justice or not?
What is the ⊡ of your screenplay?
A lot of people don't believe that you need an ⊥ before you
start writing. I hear argument after argument, discussion after dis
cussion, debate after debate. "My characters," people say, "will deter
mine the ⊥." Or, "My ⊥ grows out of my story." Or, "I'll
know my ⊥ when I get to it." (^
Sorry, ⊮ doesn't work that way. At least not in screenwriting.
You can do that maybe in a novel, or play, but not in a screen-
play. Why? Because you have only about 110 pages or so to tell your
story. That's not a lot of pages to be able to tell your story the way
you want to tell it.
The ⊥ is the first thing you must know before you begin
writing.
Why?
It's obvious, when you think about it. Your story always moves
forward—it follows a path, a direction, a line of progression from
⊤ to end. Direction is defined as a line of ⊧, the
path along which something lies.
In the η way, everything is related in the screenplay, as it is in
life. You don't have to know the specific details of your ⊥ when
you sit down to write your screenplay, but you have to know what
happens and how it affects the characters.
I use an example out of my own life to illustrate this.
There was a moment in my life when I didn't know what I
wanted to do or be. I had graduated from high school, my mother
had just died, as my father had some years before, and I didn't want
to get stuck in some job or go off to college. I didn't know what I
wanted to do with my life, so I decided to travel around the country
and see whether I could find a direction. My older brother was in
medical school in St. Louis at the time, and I knew I could stay with
him or visit friends in Colorado and New York. So, one θ, I
packed my bags, got into my car, and headed east on Highway 66.
I never knew where I was going till I got there. I preferred it that
92 —SCREENPLAY—
way. I had good times and bad times, and loved it; I was like a cloud
on the wind, drifting without aim or purpose.
I did that for almost two years.
Then, one κ, driving through the Arizona desert, I realized I
had traveled that η road before. Everything was the η, but
different. It was the η mountain in the η barren desert, ⊮
was two years ε. In reality, I saw I was going nowhere. I had spent
two years trying to get my head straight, and I still had no purpose,
no aim, no goal, no destination, no direction. I suddenly saw my
future—it was nowhere.
I became aware of time slipping away, almost like an acid trip,
and I knew I had to do something. So I stopped wandering and
went back to school. At least I'd have a degree after four years, what-
ever that meant! Of course, it didn't work out the way I expected—
it never does. ⊮ was there, at Berkeley, that I met and worked
with the man who would change my life forever: my mentor, Jean
Renoir. "The future," he told me, "is film."
When you go on a trip, you are going someplace; you have a des-
tination. If I'm going to San Francisco, that's my destination. How I
get there is a matter of choice. I can fly, drive, take a bus or train,
ride a motorcycle or bike, jog, hitchhike, or walk.
I can choose how to get there. And life is choice—personal
choices, creative choices—and learning how to take responsibility
for them.
Understanding the basic dynamics of a story's ⊡ is es-
sential. By itself, ⊡ means "a solution or explanation." And
that process begins at the onset, at the very ⊤ of the screen-
writing process. When you are laying out your story line, building
it, putting it together, ⊕ by ⊕, act by act, you must first deter-
mine the ⊡. What is the solution of your story? At the mo-
ment of the initial conception of your screenplay, when you were
still working out the idea and shaping it into a dramatic story line,
you made a creative choice, a decision, and determined what the
⊡ was going to be.
Good films are always resolved—one way or another. Think
about it.
T
— ENDINGS AND BEGINNINGS— 93
Do you remember the ⊥ of Rushmore? Finding Nemo?
Spider-Man 2? The Matrix? Bonnie and Clyde? Red River? Butch
Cassidy and the Sundance Kid? The Treasure of the Sierra Madre?
Casablanca? Annie Hall? Coming Home? Jaws? American Beauty? An
Unmarried Woman? The Searchers? Terminator 2: Judgment κ?
These are universally acclaimed films.
A good illustration is Robert Towne's Chinatown. One of the
true film classics, it incorporates great writing, great filmmaking,
and great acting. I've seen Chinatown more than thirty times over
the years and it still stands up; it's an act of discovery each time I see
it. The history of the script is intriguing: There were three drafts of
the screenplay, and three different endings.
The first draft of Chinatown is much more romantic than the
others. In this draft, Robert Towne has Jake Gittes ⊨ and clos-
ing the story with a ⊞-over narration, just the way Raymond
Chandler does in most of his stories. When Evelyn Mulwray walks
into Jake Gittes's life, he becomes involved with a woman from a
different class; she is wealthy, sophisticated, and beautiful, and he
falls head over heels in love with her. Near the end of the story, when
she learns that her father, Noah Cross (John Huston), has attempted
to hire Gittes to find her daughter/sister, she realizes that her father
will stop at nothing to get the girl, so she sets out to kill him. She
knows it's the only solution. She phones Noah Cross and tells him
to meet her along a deserted part of the coast near San Pedro. When
Cross arrives, it is raining heavily, and as he walks up the dirt road
looking for his daughter, she jams down her car's accelerator and
tries to run him over. He narrowly escapes and races to a marshy
area nearby. Evelyn leaves the car, pulls a gun, and begins tracking
him. Shots are fired. He hides behind a large wooden sign advertis-
ing fresh bait. Evelyn sees him and fires again and again into the
sign. Blood mingles with the falling rain and Noah Cross falls over
backward, dead.
A few moments ε, Gittes and Lieutenant Escobar arrive at the
⊕ and we cut to various shots of modern-κ Los Angeles and
the San Fernando Valley. Gittes, in ⊞-over narration, tells us that
Evelyn Mulwray spent four years in prison for killing her father, that
94 —SCREENPLAY —
he managed to get her daughter/sister safely back to Mexico, and
that the land scheme Noah Cross so brilliantly conceived resulted in
a profit of about $300 million. The ⊡ of this first draft is
that justice and order prevail: Noah Cross gets what he deserves,
and the graft and corruption of the water scandal leads to Los
Angeles becoming what it is today.
That was the first draft.
At that point, Robert Evans, the producer (and the man respon-
sible for The Godfather and Love Story), brought in Roman Polanski
( The Pianist) as director. Polanski had his own ideas about China-
town. Changes were discussed, then made, and the relations between
Polanski and Towne became tense and strained. They disagreed
about many things, mostly about the ⊥. Polanski wanted an
⊥ in which Noah Cross got away with murder. The second
draft is therefore altered considerably. It is less romantic, the action
is trimmed and tightened, and the focus of the ⊡ changed
substantially. The second draft is very close to the final one.
In this second draft, Noah Cross gets away with murder, graft,
and incest, and Evelyn Mulwray becomes the innocent victim who
pays for her father's crime. Towne's point of view when he began
writing Chinatown is that those who commit certain types of
crimes, like murder, robbery, rape, or arson, are punished by being
sent to prison, but those who commit crimes against an entire com-
munity are often rewarded by having streets named after them or
plaques dedicated to them at City Hall. Los Angeles literally owes its
survival to the water scandal known as the Rape of the Owens
Valley, and it provides the backdrop of the film.
The ⊥ of the second draft now has Gittes planning to meet
Evelyn Mulwray in Chinatown; he has arranged for her to be taken
to Mexico by Curly (Burt Young), the man in the ⊨ ⊕,
and her daughter/sister is waiting at the boat. Gittes has discovered
that Cross is the man behind the murders as well as the water scan-
dal, and when Gittes accuses him, Cross takes him prisoner. They
leave for Chinatown, and when they arrive, Cross tries to detain
Evelyn, but Gittes manages to subdue the older man. Evelyn races to
her car, only to be blocked by Lieutenant Escobar. Gittes makes a
— ENDINGS AND BEGINNINGS— 95
drastic move and lunges at the policeman; during the scuffle, Evelyn
drives away. Shots are fired and she is killed, shot in the head. This is
close to the final draft.
The last ⊕ shows Noah Cross weeping over Evelyn's body
while a stunned Gittes tells Escobar that Cross is the man responsi-
ble for everything.
In the third, and final, draft, the ⊥ has been modified
slightly to accent Towne's point of view, but the ⊡ is still the
η as in the second draft. Gittes is taken to Chinatown, but
Lieutenant Escobar is already there, and arrests the private detective
for withholding evidence, putting him in handcuffs. When Evelyn
arrives with her daughter/sister, Cross approaches the young girl.
Evelyn tells him to stay away, and when he doesn't, she pulls a gun
and shoots him in the arm. She gets into her car and drives off.
There is a shot fired, and Evelyn is killed, shot through the eye. (As a
side note, Sophocles has Oedipus tear out his eyes when he realizes
he has committed incest with his mother. I find this an intriguing
parallel, whether intentional or not.)
Horrified by Evelyn's death, Cross puts his arm protectively
around his daughter/granddaughter and forcefully whisks her away
into the darkness.
"Forget it, Jake.... It's Chinatown."
Noah Cross, indeed, gets away with it all: murder, the water
scandal, the girl. "You gotta be rich to kill somebody, anybody, and
get away with it," Gittes tells Curly in the ⊨ ⊕.
The ⊡ must be clear in your mind before you write one
word on paper; it is context, it holds the ⊥ in place. Billy Wilder
once remarked that if you ever have a problem with your ⊥,
the answer always lies in the ⊤. To write a strong ⊨,
you must know your ⊥. This applies to almost everything in
life. If you want to cook a meal, or a specific dish, you don't just go
into the kitchen, open the refrigerator, and start throwing things to-
gether, then see what you've got! You know what you're going to
prepare before you go into the kitchen; then all you have to do is
. cook it.
Your story is really a journey, the end its destination. Take
96 —SCREENPLAY —
another look at The Hours, or at the ⊨ of American Beauty.
After the short video ⊕, we see a city and a street, and we hear
Lester Burnham's ⊞-over: "My name is Lester Burnham. I'm
forty-two years old. In less than a year I'll be dead__In a way, I'm
dead already." The story then shows us how he comes back to life.
It seems that one of the major difficulties screenwriters deal with
is the problem of endings: how to end your screenplay so it works ef-
fectively, so it's satisfying and fulfilling, so it makes an emotional
impact on the reader and audience, so it's not contrived or pre-
dictable, so it's real, believable, not forced or fabricated; an ⊥
that resolves all the main story points; an ⊥, in short, that
works.
More easily said than done. What's so interesting about endings
is that, in most cases, the ⊥ itself is not really the problem; it's
the fact that it doesn't work effectively. It's either too soft or too slow,
too wordy or too vague, too expensive or not expensive enough, too
down, too up, too contrived, too predictable, or too unbelievable.
Sometimes it's simply not dramatic enough to resolve the story line,
or maybe a surprise twist suddenly comes out of nowhere. Many as-
piring screenwriters feel the best way to end their screenplay is by
having the main character die, or in some extreme cases, having
everybody die. It's tight, complete, easy. But you can do better than
that.
Jean Renoir once told me that a good teacher is someone who
"shows people the connections between things." I always try to re-
member that and utilize it in my writings and teachings. In physics,
it's a natural law that endings and beginnings are related—cause
and effect, like Newton's Third Law of Motion in physics: For every
action there's an equal and opposite reaction.
For me, the ⊥ of one thing is always the ⊤ of some-
thing else. Be it a wedding, funeral, or divorce; a career change or
the ⊥ of one relationship and the ⊤ of a new one; a
move to a new city or country; or winning or losing your life savings
in Las Vegas—it's all the η: The end of one thing is always the
⊤ of something else. If you overcome a serious medical
challenge, like cancer or a heart attack, or go through a near-death
— ENDINGS AND BEGINNINGS- 97
experience, it's a brand-new ⊤ with an awareness that every
breath you take is a sacred gift, a blessing of joy and gratitude.
When I was head of the story department at Cinemobile, I was
always seventy scripts behind. The pile on my desk rarely got
smaller. And if by some miracle I almost caught up, a stack of scripts
would suddenly appear from nowhere—from agents, producers, di-
rectors, actors, studios. I read so many screenplays that were boring
and poorly written that I learned to tell within the first ten pages
whether a script was working or not. I gave the writer thirty pages to
set up the story, and if it wasn't done by then I reached for the next
script on the pile. I had too many scripts to read to waste my time
reading material that didn't work. I was reading three scripts a κ. I
didn't have time to hope the writer did his or her job; he either set
up his story or he didn't. If he didn't, I threw the script into the large
trash bin that served as the "return file."
With that in mind, it's interesting to ask yourself the question:
What is the ⊨ of your screenplay? How does it begin? What is
the ⊨ ⊕ or ⊟? What do you write after "fade in"?
You've only got about ten pages to grab the attention of your
reader or audience; that's why so many films open with an attention-
grabbing ⊟ like the ⊨ of Jaws (Peter Benchley, Carl
Gottlieb), The Shawshank Redemption, The Hours, Raiders of the
Lost Ark (Lawrence Kasdan), the pizza delivery run in Spider-Man 2,
or the dream ⊟ that opens Rushmore. Once you establish
this ⊕ or ⊟, usually called the inciting incident, you can
set up the rest of your story.
Don't worry about where to put the credits. The credits are usu-
ally a filmic decision, not a writing one. The placement of credits is
the last thing decided on a film, and it's the decision of the film edi-
tor and director. Whether it's a dynamic credit montage or simply
white cards superimposed on a black background, where to put the
credits is not your decision. You can write "credits begin" or "credits
end" if you want, but that's it. Write the screenplay; don't worry
about the credits.
Nobody sells a script in Hollywood without the help of a reader.
I hate to be the one to tell you this, but in Hollywood, "nobody
98 —SCREENPLAY—
reads"; producers don't read, directors don't read, stars don't read.
Readers read. There is an elaborate filtering system regarding
screenplays in this town. Everybody says they're going to read your
script over the weekend, and that means they're going to give it to
somebody to read within the next few weeks: a reader, secretary, re-
ceptionist, wife, girlfriend, assistant. If the reader says she likes the
screenplay, then she'll pass it on to a creative executive, who'll take
the script home over the weekend to read.
The screenwriter's job is to keep the reader turning pages. The
first ten pages of your screenplay are absolutely the most crucial.
Within the first ten pages, a reader will know whether your story is
working or not, whether it's been set up or not. You've got ten pages
to grab the attention of your reader. What are you going to do with
them? How are you going to hook the reader?
So we go back to the ⊤: What's the ⊨ of your
screenplay? When you start thinking about how you're going to
open your script, the creative choices you make are essential in
keeping the reader turning pages. What ⊕ or ⊟ is on
page one, word one? What are you going to show? What image, or
action, are you going to visually present that will grab the atten-
tion of your reader and audience? Is it going to be a visually exciting
action ⊟, as in The Wild Bunch or Lord of the Rings or the
battle ⊕ in Cold Mountain? Or are you going to create an inter-
esting character introduction, as Robert Towne does in Shampoo: a
darkened bedroom, moans and squeals of pleasurable delight—the
phone rings, loud, insistent, shattering the mood. It's another
woman—for Warren Beatty, who's in bed with Lee Grant. It shows
us everything we need to know about his character. In The Royal
Tenenbaums, Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson use a ⊞-over nar-
ration to introduce the family background while showing us the
four main characters growing up. It sets up the entire film and es-
tablishes the ⊙ of family, failure, and forgiveness.
Shakespeare is a master of openings. Either he opens with
an action ⊟, like the ghost walking the parapet in Hamlet,
or the witches foretelling the future in Macbeth, or he uses a ⊕
revealing something about the character: Richard III is hunch-
backed and laments about the "winter of our discontent"; King
— ENDINGS AND BEGINNINGS— 99
Lear demands to know how much his daughters love him, in terms
of material goods, in dollars and cents. Before Romeo and Juliet be-
gins, the chorus appears, bangs for silence, and synopsizes the story
of the "star-crossed lovers."
Shakespeare knew his audience: the groundlings standing in the
pit, the poor and oppressed, drinking freely, talking boisterously to
the performers if they didn't like the action onstage. He had to grab
their attention and focus it on the action.
An ⊨ can be visually active and exciting, grabbing the au-
dience immediately. Another kind of ⊨ is expository, slower-
paced in establishing character and situation: Thelma & Louise, Y Tu
Marna También, American Beauty, Sideways, or Mean Girls.
Your story determines the type of ⊨ you choose.
The Watergate break-in opens All the President's Men (William
Goldman) with a tense and dramatic ⊟. Lord of the Rings:
The Fellowship of the Ring sets up the history of the ring and the sit-
uation in ⊦ Earth; Close Encounters of the Third Kind opens
with a dynamic, mysterious ⊟ where we don't know what's
going on. Rushmore is a story about a dreamer, so it opens with the
main character in a dream ⊟ that illuminates the character's
affinity for living in fantasy. The ⊨ of Julia (Alvin Sargent) is
moody, reflective, establishing a character enmeshed in the strands
of memory. An Unmarried Woman (Paul Mazursky) opens with an
argument, then reveals the life of the married woman.
The ⊨ of your screenplay has to be well thought out and
visually designed to illustrate what your story is about. Many times
I read screenplays and the writer has not really thought out his/her
⊨; there are scenes and sequences that don't have anything to
do with the story. It's like the writer is searching, through ⊘
and explanation, for his/her story. Before you write one shot, one
word of ⊘ on paper, you must know four things: your end-
ing, your ⊤, ⊗ Point I, and ⊗ Point II. In that order.
These four elements, these four incidents, episodes, or events, are
the cornerstones, the foundation, of your screenplay.
Endings and beginnings are related in the η way that an ice
cube and water are related: Water is composed of a definite molecu-
lar structure, and an ice cube has a definite crystalline structure. But
100 —SCREENPLAY —
when an ice cube melts in water, you can't tell the difference be-
tween the elements that were water and those that were the ice cube.
They are part and parcel of the η thing; they exist in the rela-
tionship between the parts and the whole. The ⊨ of your
script will determine whether the reader continues reading your
screenplay or not. He or she must know three things within these
first few pages of the script: the character—who the story is about;
the dramatic (or comédie) premise—what the story is about; and the
situation—the circumstances surrounding the action. Within those
first ten pages, the reader is going to make a decision about whether
he/she likes or dislikes the material. If you don't believe me, check it
out at the next movie you see. More about this in a ε chapter.
Robert Rossen's The Hustler, one of the great classics of the '60s,
opens with Eddie (Paul Newman) arriving to play pool at a pool
hall with Minnesota Fats (Jackie Gleason); it ends with Eddie leav-
ing the pool hall after winning the game, in a self-imposed exile
from the world of pool. The film opens with a pool game and closes
with a pool game.
In Sydney Pollack's excellent Three Days of the Condor, one of the
unheralded great films of the '70s, Joseph Turner (played by Robert
Redford) raises the dramatic premise of the entire film in his first
line: "Anything in the pouch for me, Dr. Lapp?" The answer to that
question results in several people being brutally murdered and in
Turner almost losing his life. He has uncovered a "CIA" within the
CIA—and he doesn't know it until the end of the movie. His dis-
covery is the final key that resolves the movie.
The ⊥ of Condor (Lorenzo Semple Jr. and David Rayfiel,
from the novel Six Days of the Condor by James Grady) is an excel-
lent example of story ⊡. Ably directed by Sydney Pollack, it
is a fast-moving, well-constructed thriller that works on all levels—
the acting is excellent, the cinematography effective, the ⊥
tight and lean; there is no "fat" in this film.
By the end of the movie, Turner has tracked down the mysteri-
ous Lionel Atwood—a high-level executive in the CIA—but he
doesn't know who Atwood is or what his connection is, if any, to
the murders. In the ⊡ ⊕, Turner establishes Atwood as
— ENDINGS AND BEGINNINGS— 101
the man who ordered the murders, determining that he is responsi-
ble for establishing a secret cell of the CIA within the CIA because
of the world's oil fields. This now established, Joubert (Max von
Sydow) appears, the hired assassin of the intelligence underworld,
and abruptly kills Atwood. Turner is now back in the employ of the
"company," the CIA. He breathes easier; he's alive—"at least for
now," as Joubert reminds him.
No loose ends. Everything is resolved dramatically, in terms of
action and character; all questions raised are answered. The story is
complete.
The filmmakers added a "tag" ⊕ at the end. Joe Turner and
Higgins are standing in front of the New York Times Building, and
Turner states that if anything happens to him, the Times has the
story. But "will they print it?" Higgins asks.
It's a good question.
If we think about the relationship between the ⊥ and be-
ginning, the parts and the whole, we can look at the story's resolu-
tion as a whole made up of the ⊥, the parts. The ⊡ is
the seed of the ⊥, and if planted and nurtured correctly, it can
sprout into a full-fledged dramatic experience. That's what we all
strive for. Endings are manifested in the ⊡ and the resolu-
tion is conceived in the ⊤.
If you don't know your ⊥, then ask yourself what you would
like the ⊥ to be, regardless of whether it's too simple, too trite,
too happy, or too sad. And please, please, don't get caught up in the
game of "What kind of an ⊥ would they like?"—whoever they
are. What ⊥ do you want? It doesn't matter whether it's "com-
mercial" or not, because nobody knows what's commercial or not
anyway.
You might find it necessary to write an essay about what hap-
pens in Act III so that the story line is clear and defined. Then go
through the action and in free association, in a one- or two-page es-
say, begin to list the ways this film can end. Don't be attached to any
single shot, ⊕, or ⊟. Just list the various ways the endings
can be achieved. If that doesn't clarify the action, and you're still un-
clear about how the material should end, simply write down how
102 —SCREENPLAY—
you would like it to end, regardless of budget, believability, or any-
thing else that gets in the way. Just throw down any thoughts, words,
or ideas, without any regard as to how to do it. That's really the first
step in the completion process. It's important to tie together all the
loose ends of the ⊚ line so the screenplay becomes a com-
plete reading and visual experience (in the mind's eye) that rings
true and is integral to the action and the characters.
There are other ways to end your screenplay as well. There may
be an instance where Act III becomes an entire ⊟, a full and
complete unit of action. The ⊥ of Apollo 13 is such a case; as
are the endings of Witness and Crimson Tide. And if you look at
Pulp Fiction, the ⊥ is really a "bookend": the Pumpkin and
Honey Bunny (Tim Roth and Amanda Plummer) robbery attempt
in the restaurant—which, coincidentally, opens the movie. Endings
and beginnings are connected, right? In each of these scripts the
⊥ completes the action of Act III.
In Apollo 13, the entire third act focuses on the astronauts' re-
turn to Earth, as we follow the action from the moment the LEM
separates from the spacecraft, cutting back and forth to the com-
mand center, to the anxious three minutes that turns out to
be four, waiting for them to plunge through the atmosphere, not
knowing whether the heat shield will protect them or not. When
they finally do break through the cloud cover and land safely in the
ocean and are rescued, that is the ⊡; the ⊥ is simply
the ⊞-over of Jim Lovell telling us what happened to the three
astronauts after their ordeal in space. It's played over shots of them
on the aircraft carrier.
The ⊗ Point at the end of Act II in Witness has John Book
(Harrison Ford) and Rachel completing their relationship as they
embrace underneath the birdhouse that Book had broken when he
first arrived, and that has now been restored. Act III opens when the
three crooked cops pull over the ridge, park their car, pull out their
weapons, and make their way down to the farmhouse. Once there,
they break into the farmhouse and hold Rachel and the grandfather
hostage while they hunt for Book and young Samuel, trying to kill
them. So the entire third act is really a shoot-out, and the end
— ENDINGS AND BEGINNINGS— 103
emerges from that action; John Book says good-bye to Rachel and
young Samuel, and over the end credits, as he drives the car up the
long dirt road leading back to Philadelphia, Daniel, Rachel's suitor
(Alexander Godunov), walks toward the farmhouse. Witness is a
great little film that works on all levels. The ⊥ of one thing is
always the ⊤ of something else.
It's a little different with Crimson Tide (⊯ Schiffer). At ⊗
Point II, the emergency action message has been partially received,
and while it is being deciphered, the Denzel Washington and Gene
Hackman characters are at an uneasy standoff as the countdown to
launch the nuclear missiles continues. Act III is an entire ⊟,
and ends when they finally receive the complete message telling
them to cancel the nuclear strike. That's the ⊡.
The ⊥ is something else. There is a little tag added on after
the action is complete: A naval inquiry is held, and it is decided that
both men were right in their actions, because the naval regulations
were unclear on this situation. The Gene Hackman character retires
from active duty, and the Denzel Washington character will be pro-
moted to captain and receive command of his own ship.
Two different points of view, resolved, effective, complete. It's
what a good ⊥ is meant to provide.
So what makes a good ⊥? It has to work, first of all, by sat-
isfying the story; when we reach the final fade-out and walk away
from the movie experience, we want to feel full and satisfied, much
as if we were leaving the table after a good meal. It's this feeling of
satisfaction that must be fulfilled in order for an ⊥ to work ef-
fectively. And, of course, it's got to be believable.
What you want in your screenplay is the best possible ⊥
that works. You want to be true to your story line and not have to re-
sort to any tricks, gimmicks, or contrived elements in order to make
it work. Sometimes you start out writing with a specific ⊥ in
mind and you base the structure and story line around it, but as
you're writing the story, you suddenly get a better idea about how to
end the script. Go with it. Let it change. It probably is a better end-
ing. That's where you have to trust your creative self, your intuition.
But, though it's good to accept that your ⊥ may change as
104 —SCREENPLAY —
you're writing, that doesn't mean you should begin writing without
knowing your ⊥.
If I could sum up the concept of endings and state the one most
important thing to remember, I would say: The ⊥ comes out of
the ⊤. Someone, or something, initiates an action, and how
that action is resolved becomes the story line of the film.
The Chinese say that "the longest journey begins with the first
step," and in many philosophical systems "endings and beginnings"
are connected; as in the concept of yin and yang, two concentric cir-
cles joined together, forever united, forever opposed.
If you can find a way to illustrate this in your screenplay, it is to
your advantage.
This is something you can study. Read as many scripts as you
can. There are several Web sites that offer downloadable screen-
plays. Just Google "screenplays" and check out the sites. And you
should be seeing and analyzing as many films as you can, at least
two movies a week, either in movie theaters or on DVD or video.
Movies are available to everyone now. You should see all kinds of
movies: good films, bad films, foreign films, old films, new films.
Every film you see becomes a learning experience; if you examine it,
it will generate a process, giving you an expanded awareness of the
screenplay. A movie should be viewed as a working session: Talk
about it, discuss it with friends or loved ones; see whether you can
isolate its structure; see whether it fits the paradigm or not.
So, what's the best way to open your screenplay?
KNOW YOUR ⊥!
Cat Stevens sums it up in his song "Sitting":
Life is like a maze of doors,
and they open from the side you're on.
Just keep on pushin hard, boy, try as you may,
you might wind up where you started from.
Endings and beginnings: two sides of the η coin.
-ENDINGS AND BEGINNINGS- 105
Determine the ⊥ of your screenplay, then design your open-
ing. The primary rule for the ⊨ is: Does it set your story in
motion? Does it establish your main character? Does it state the
dramatic premise? Does it set up the situation? Does it establish or
set up a problem that your character must confront and overcome?
Does it state your character's need?
Setting Up the
Story
"I'll tell you the unwritten law, you dumb
son of a bitch. You gotta be rich to kill
somebody, anybody, and get away with it. You
think you got that kind of dough, you think
you got that kind of class?"
—Chinatown (omitted lines)
Robert Towne
There's a law in physics called Newton's Third Law of Motion,
which states that "for every action, there is an equal and opposite re-
action." Which means, basically, that everything is related. We exist
in relationship to each other, we exist in relationship to the Earth,
we exist in relationship to all living things, and we exist in relation-
ship to the universe. "There's a special providence in the fall of a
sparrow..." is the way Shakespeare puts it.
In a screenplay the η principle holds true: Everything is re-
lated. If we go back to the second definition of structure, it states
that there is a causal "relationship between the parts and the whole."
If you change a ⊕ or a line of ⊘ on page 10, it impacts and
influences a ⊕ or a line of ⊘ on page 80. Change a few
elements in the ⊥, and you have to add or delete a few ele-
ments in the ⊤. A screenplay is a whole, and exists in direct
relationship to its parts. Therefore, it becomes essential to introduce
your story from the very ⊤, from page one, word one. As
mentioned, you've got about ten pages or less to grab your reader, so
you've got to set up your story right away.
— SETTING UP THE STORY— 107
The reader must know what's going on immediately, from the
very first words on the page. Setting up your story by explaining
lings through ⊘ slows down the action and impedes the
story progression. A screenplay is a story told with pictures, remem-
ber, so it's important to set up your story visually. The reader must
know who the main character is, whatthe dramatic premise is, what
îe story is about, and the dramatic situation—the circumstances
surrounding the action.
These elements must be introduced within the first ten pages,
whether you open your screenplay with an action ⊟, as in
Raiders of the Lost Ark, The Matrix, or Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship
of the Ring, or with a dramatic ⊟, as in The Shawshank
Redemption, The Pianist, or Mystic River (Brian Helgeland). The
reader has to know what the story is about and who it's about. I tell
my students you have to approach the first ten pages of your screen-
play as a unit, or block, of dramatic action. It must be designed and
executed with efficiency and dramatic value because it sets up
everything that follows.
I thought about this as I was preparing this chapter. When I first
wrote Screenplay, I used Chinatown as an illustration of the best way
to set up your screenplay, interrelating story with character and
situation. I examined other films as well, but I kept coming back to
Chinatown. The first ten pages of this film still work perfectly as an
example of setting up your story.
Chinatown is now considered one of the classic American
screenplays; conceived in the 1970s, it was written and produced
during a virtual renaissance of American screenwriting. Not that
it's any "better" set up than The Godfather, or Apocalypse Now,
or All the President's Men, or Close Encounters of the Third Kind,
or Five Easy Pieces (Carol Eastman, aka Adrien Joyce), or Annie
Hall, or Julia, or Coming Home, or ε films such as Raging
Bull (Paul Schrader and Mardik Martin), or An Officer and a
Gentleman (Douglas κ Stewart), or Dances With Wolves, or
Thelma & Louise, or Forrest Gump (Eric Roth), or Pulp Fiction
(Quentin Tarantino), or The Usual Suspects (Chris McQuarrie),
and so many others. All of these films are outstanding examples
of how screenplays are set up. But after looking at them all, as
108 —SCREENPLAY —
well as many others, I decided Chinatown was still the most ef-
fective.
Why? Because Chinatown is a film that works on all levels: story,
characters, historical perspective, visual dynamics, and above all,
the basic essentials that illustrate screenwriting as a craft. The film is
a mystery-thriller in the style and tradition of Raymond Chandler;
Robert Towne used the Owens Valley Scandal of the early 1900s as
the dramatic backdrop to the story, but updated the action from the
turn of the century to Los Angeles in 1937. In this way, Towne
achieved the η revolutionary shift in filmmaking as did the
Flemish painters of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, who
placed the portraits of their Belgium patrons against the backdrop
of Italian landscapes, a move that changed the course of art history.
I've written a lot about my experience of Chinatown, and I still
vividly recall the first time I saw it, at an industry screening at
Paramount. I was working at Cinemobile at the time, and there was
a light rain falling as I pulled into the Paramount lot. As I walked
through the dampness of early λ, I did not want to be there. It
had been an extremely full and stressful κ. I had read my usual
quota of scripts, attended my usual quota of meetings, and had a
large and late lunch with a writer during which I drank a little too
much wine. My throat was raw, and I felt I was coming down with a
cold. Nothing would be better, I thought, than soaking in a long hot
bath, having a nice cup of tea, and crawling into bed.
The film began, and as the story unfolded, my critical mind
kicked in and I started a little ⊘ in which I was complaining
about the movie. I thought it was flat, the characters dull and one-
dimensional. Before I knew it, I had nodded off. I don't know how
much of the film I missed, I just knew it was one of those evenings
where my body was in the screening room, but I certainly was not.
When I heard the last lines of the film, "Forget it, Jake__ It's
Chinatown," that's exactly what I wanted to do. By the time I got
home, I had already forgotten about it.
So much for my introduction to Chinatown.
A short time ε, I had the opportunity to interview Robert
Towne, and during the course of our conversation I asked how he
went about creating his characters, especially how he conceived Jake
— SETTING UP THE STORY— 109
Gittes, the Jack Nicholson character. He replied that the first ques-
tion he often asks himself when approaching his character is "What
is this character afraid of?" In other words, what is his/her deepest
ear? Gittes, a private detective who specializes in "discreet investi-
gation," has a certain reputation to uphold, so he always wants to
"look good." He does everything to make a good impression. He
dresses immaculately, has his shoes shined every κ, and has his
own code of ethics. Gittes's unspoken, deep-seated fear is not being
taken seriously, looking foolish.
I was very impressed with Bob Towne, both by what he said and
how he said it. He was open, insightful, articulate, engaging, and ex-
tremely literate, qualities I genuinely admire. I was so impressed
that I wanted to see Chinatown again; I wanted to see if I'd be able to
catch those little nuances of character and story that Towne had
spoken about that I had missed during my first viewing of the film.
So, one ι after work, I went to see it again. And this time, by
the end of the film, when Evelyn Mulwray, the innocent victim, is
killed in Chinatown, I felt I had really seen the movie. When I heard
that familiar last line, "Forget it, Jake __It's Chinatown," I was
touched, moved, and inspired. The film lingered with me over the
next few days, and various scenes kept coming back to mind.
My experience of Chinatown was literally a voyage of discovery.
Against the backdrop of water runoff and several murders, we fol-
low Jake Gittes as he uncovers the puzzle, one piece at a time. We
learn what's going on at the η time that Gittes does; audience
and character are linked together as they connect the bits and pieces
of seemingly unrelated information, as they assemble this giant jig-
saw puzzle.
From the very first images on screen—a series of photographs
showing a man and woman having sex in the park—we know this is
a story told in pictures. Over these pictures, we hear the moans and
groans of Curly, the husband of the woman, played by Burt Young.
What does this show? What Jake Gittes, the main character, does for
a living. He's a private detective specializing in divorces, unfaithful
spouses, and "going through other people's dirty linen," as one of
the characters remarks. It's his métier.
Jake's character is defined by what he does, his actions. Towne
110 —SCREENPLAY —
sets up the story in the very first ⊕. When the phony Mrs.
Mulwray (Diane Ladd) hires Jake to find out who her husband is
having an affair with, he begins his surveillance of Hollis Mulwray.
As he does, the audience learns what Gittes learns.
After Gittes follows Mulwray to the dried-out Los Angeles River
bed, then to the ocean, his long surveillance is rewarded when he
witnesses water being dumped into the ocean. Several hours ε,
when Gittes returns to his car, he picks a leaflet off the windshield
declaring, "Our city is dying of thirst!" and "Save our city."
This ⊙ of water is an organic, thematic thread, woven
through the story. As I began tracing the connection of water to the
story, I felt like Gittes when Noah Cross (John Huston) tells him, "You
may think you know what's going on, but believe me, you don't."
When Gittes finds "the girl" at the end of Act I and closes the
case, he sees the pictures he had taken on the front page of the news-
paper. (And if you look closely in the background of this ⊕,
you'll see a car overheating from lack of water.) The headlines
scream "scandal," and when Jake returns to his office, he finds a
woman waiting for him: Faye Dunaway. She confirms they've never
met, then declares she could never have hired him to find out who
her husband is having an affair with. "You see, my name is Mrs.
Evelyn Mulwray": the real Mrs. Mulwray.
This is the key incident in the movie. It is the "key" that unlocks
the story. If Faye Dunaway is the real Mrs. Mulwray, who is the
Diane Ladd character who hired Gittes, claiming to be Mrs. Mulwray?
And who hired the phony Mrs. Mulwray? And why? That's the ques-
tion that shocks Gittes into action. It is the true ⊤ of the
story.
The relationship between these scenes of seemingly unrelated
information sets up the entire story. Every ⊕, every piece of in-
formation, no matter how seemingly small, reveals something
about the story and leads to that moment when the real Evelyn
Mulwray shows up. This entire unit of dramatic action serves to es-
tablish three things: who the main character is, what the story is
about, and what the dramatic situation is, the circumstances sur-
rounding the action; i.e., "L.A. is dying of thirst."
The first ten pages set up the entire screenplay. What follows are
— SETTING UP THE STORY— 111
these first ten pages of Chinatown as they appear in the screenplay.
Read them carefully. Notice how Towne sets up his main character,
how he introduces the dramatic premise and reveals the dramatic
situation.
(NOTE: All questions about screenplay form will be discussed in
Chapter 10.)
(page 1 of screenplay) CHINATOWN by Robert
Towne FADE IN FULL SCREEN PHOTOGRAPH
grainy but unmistakably a man and woman making
love. Photograph shakes. SOUND of a man MOANING
in anguish. The photograph is dropped, REVEALING
another, more compromising one. Then another,
and another. More moans.
CURLY'S ⊞ (crying out)
Oh, no.
INT. GITTES' OFFICE
CURLY drops the photos on Gittes' desk. Curly
towers over GITTES and sweats heavily through his
workman's clothes, his breathing progressively
more labored. A drop plunks on Gittes' shiny
desktop.
Gittes notes it. A fan whirrs overhead. Gittes
glances up at it. He looks cool and brisk in a
white linen suit despite the heat. Never taking
his eyes off Curly, he lights a cigarette using a
lighter with a "nail" on his desk.
Curly, with another anguished sob, turns and rams
his fist into the wall, kicking the wastebasket as
he does. He starts to sob again, slides along the
wall where his fist has left a noticeable dent and
its impact has sent the signed photos of several
movie stars askew.
—SCREENPLAY—
112
Curly slides on into the blinds and sinks to his
knees. He is weeping heavily now, and is in such
pain that he actually bites into the blinds.
Gittes doesn't move from his chair.
GITTES
All right, enough is enough—you can't
eat the Venetian blinds, Curly. I just
had 'em installed on Wednesday.
Curly responds slowly, rising to his feet, cry-
ing. Gittes reaches into his desk and pulls out a
shot glass, guickly selects a cheaper bottle of
bourbon from several fifths of more expensive
whiskeys.
Gittes pours a large shot. He shoves the glass
across his desk toward Curly.
(2)
GITTES
Down the hatch.
Curly stares dumbly at it. Then picks it up, and
drains it. He sinks back into the chair opposite
Gittes, begins to cry quietly.
CURLY
(drinking, relaxing a little)
She's just no good.
GITTES
What can I tell you, kid? You're
right. When you're right, you're
right, and you're right.
CURLY
Ain't worth thinking about.
Gittes leaves the bottle with Curly.
GITTES
You're absolutely right, I wouldn't
give her another thought.
— SETTING UP THE STORY— 113
CURLY
(pouring himself)
You know, you're okay, Mr. Gittes. I
know it's your job, but you're okay.
GITTES
(settling back, breathing a little easier)
Thanks, Curly. Call me Jake.
CURLY Thanks. You
know something, Jake?
GITTES
What's that, Curly?
CURLY I
think V 11 kill her.
(3)
INT. DUFFY & WALSH'S OFFICE
noticeably less plush than Gittes' . A well-
groomed, dark-haired WOMAN sits nervously between
their two desks, fiddling with the veil on her
pillbox hat.
WOMAN
I was hoping Mr. Gittes could see to
this personally—
WALSH (almost the manner
of someone comforting the
bereaved)
If you'll allow us to complete our
preliminary questioning, by then
he'11 be free.
There is the SOUND of ANOTHER MOAN coming from
Gittes' office—something made of glass shatters.
The Woman grows more edgy.
INT. GITTES' OFFICE-GITTES & CURLY
Gittes and Curly stand in front of the desk,
Gittes staring contemptuously at the heavy
breathing hulk towering over him. Gittes takes a
handkerchief and wipes away the plunk of perspi-
ration on his desk.
—SCREENPLAY-
114
CURLY (crying) They don't kill a
guy for that.
GITTES
Oh they don't?
CURLY
Not for your wife. That's the
unwritten law.
Gittes pounds the photos on the desk, shouting:
GITTES (Con't)
I'll tell you the unwritten law, you
dumb son of a bitch, you gotta be rich
to kill somebody, anybody, and get away
with it. You think you got that kind of
dough, you think you got that kind of
class?
(4)
Curly shrinks back a little.
CURLY
... No ...
GITTES
You bet your ass you don't. You can't
even pay me off.
This seems to upset Curly even more.
CURLY
I'll pay the rest next trip—we only
caught sixty ton of skipjack around San
Benedict. We hit a chubasco, they don't
pay you for skipjack the way they do
tuna or albacore-
GITTES
(easing him out of his office)
Forget it. I only mention it to
illustrate a point . . .
INT. OFFICE RECEPTION
He's now walking him past SOPHIE, who pointedly
averts her gaze. He opens the door where <->n
on
— SETTING UP THE STORY— 115
the pebbled glass can be read: J.J. GITTES and
Associates-DISCREET INVESTIGATION.
GITTES I don't
want your last dime.
He throws an arm around Curly and flashes a daz-
zling smile.
GITTES (continuing) What kind of a guy
do you think I am?
CURLY
Thanks, Mr. Gittes.
GITTES
Call me Jake. Careful driving home,
Curly.
He shuts the door on him and the smile disappears
.
(5)
He shakes his head, starting to swear under his
breath.
SOPHIE
A Mrs. Mulwray is waiting for you,
with Mr. Walsh and Mr. Duffy.
Gittes nods, walks on in. INT.
DUFFY & WALSH'S OFFICE Walsh
rises when Gittes enters.
WALSH
Mrs. Mulwray, may I present Mr.
Gittes?
Gittes walks over to her and again flashes a warm,
sympathetic smile.
GITTES How do
you do, Mrs. Mulwray?
116 —SCREENPLAY-
MRS. MULWRAY
Mr. Gittes . . .
GITTES
Now, Mrs. Mulwray, what seems to be
the problem?
She holds her breath. The revelation isn't easy
for her.
MRS. MULWRAY
My husband, I believe, is seeing
another woman.
Gittes looks mildly shocked. He turns for confir-
mation to his two partners.
GITTES (gravely) No,
really?
MRS. MULWRAY
I'm afraid so.
GITTES
I am sorry.
Gittes pulls up a chair, sitting next to Mrs.
Mulwray—between Duffy and Walsh. Duffy cracks his
gum.
Gittes gives him an irritated glance. Duffy stops
chewing.
MRS. MULWRAY
Can't we talk about this alone, Mr.
Gittes?
GITTES
I'm afraid not, Mrs. Mulwray. These
men are my operatives and at some
point they're going to assist me. I
can't do everything myself.
MRS. MULWRAY
Of course not.
— SETTING UP THE STORY— 117
GITTES
Now—what makes you certain he is
involved with someone?
Mrs. Mulwray hesitates. She seems uncommonly nervous
at the question.
MRS. MULWRAY A
wife can tell.
Gittes sighs.
GITTES
Mrs. Mulwray, do you love your
husband?
MRS. MULWRAY
(shocked)
. . . Yes, of course.
GITTES
(deliberately) Then go
home and forget about it.
MRS. MULWRAY
But . . .
GITTES
(staring intently at her) I am
sure he loves you, too. You know the
expression, "let sleeping dogs lie"?
You're better off not knowing.
(7)
MRS. MULWRAY (with some
real anxiety) But I have to
know!
Her intensity is genuine. Gittes looks to his two
partners.
GITTES
All right, what's your husband's first
name?
MRS. MULWRAY
Hollis. Hollis Mulwray.
118 —SCREENPLAY —
GITTES
(visibly surprised)
Water and Power?
Mrs. Mulwray nods, almost shyly. Gittes is now
casually but carefully checking out the detailing
of Mrs. Mulwray's dress—her handbag, shoes, etc.
MRS. MULWRAY
He's the Chief Engineer.
DUFFY
(a little eagerly)
Chief Engineer?
Gittes' glance tells Duffy Gittes wants to do the
questioning. Mrs. Mulwray nods.
GITTES
(confidentially)
This type of investigation can be hard
on your pocketbook, Mrs. Mulwray. It
takes time.
MRS. MULWRAY
Money doesn't matter to me, Mr.
Gittes.
Gittes sighs.
GITTES Very well. We'll
see what we can do.
EXT. CITY HALL-θ already
shimmering with heat.
(8)
A drunk blows his nose with his fingers into the
fountain at the foot of the steps.
Gittes, impeccably dressed, passes the drunk on
the way up the stairs.
INT. COUNCIL CHAMBERS
Former Mayor SAM BAGBY is speaking. Behind him is
a huge map, with overleafs and bold lettering:
— SETTING UP THE STORY— 119
"PROPOSED ALTO VALLEJO DAM AND RESERVOIR"
Some of the councilmen are reading funny papers
and gossip columns while Bagby is speaking.
BAGBY
Gentlemen, today you can walk out that
door, turn right, hop on a streetcar and
in twenty-five minutes end up smack in the
Pacific Ocean. Now you can swim in it, you
can fish in it, you can sail in it—but you
can't drink it, you can't water your lawns
with it, you can't irrigate an orange
grove with it. Remember—we live next door
to the ocean but we also live on the edge
of the desert. Los Angeles is a desert
community. Beneath this building, beneath
every street, there's a desert. Without
water the dust will rise up and cover us
as though we'd never existed! (pausing,
letting the implication sink in)
CLOSE-GITTES
sitting next to some grubby farmers, bored. He
yawns—edges away from one of the dirtier farmers.
BAGBY (O.S.)
(continuing)
The Alto Vallejo can save us from
that, and I respectfully suggest that
eight and a half million dollars is a
fair price to pay to keep the desert
from our streets—and not on top of
them.
(9)
AUDIENCE-COUNCIL CHAMBERS
An amalgam of farmers, businessmen, and city em-
ployees have been listening with keen interest. A
couple of the farmers applaud. Somebody shooshes
them.
COUNCIL COMMITTEE
in a whispered conference.
—SCREENPLAY-
120
COUNCILMAN
(acknowledging Bagby) Mayor
Bagby . . . let's hear from the
departments again—I suppose we better
take Water and Power first. Mr. Mulwray.
REACTION-GITTES
looking up with interest from his racing form.
MULWRAY
walks to the huge map with overleaf s. He is a
slender man in his sixties who wears glasses and
moves with surprising fluidity. He turns to a
smaller, younger man, and nods. The man turns the
overleaf on the map.
MULWRAY
In case you've forgotten, gentlemen,
over five hundred lives were lost when
the Van der Lip Dam gave way—core
samples have shown that beneath this
bedrock is shale similar to the
permeable shale in the Van der Lip
disaster. It couldn't withstand that
kind of pressure there.
(referring to a new overleaf) Now
you propose yet another dirt-banked
terminus dam with slopes of two and one
half to one, one hundred twelve feet
high and a twelve-thousand-acre water
surface. Well, it won't hold. I won't
build it. It's that simple—I am not
making that kind of mistake twice. Thank
you, gentlemen.
(10)
Mulwray leaves the overleaf board and sits
down. Suddenly there are some whoops and hollers
from the rear of the chambers and a red-faced
FARMER drives in several scrawny, bleating sheep.
Naturally, they cause a commotion.
— SETTING UP THE STORY— 121
COUNCIL PRESIDENT
(shouting to farmer)
What in the hell do you think you're
doing?
(as the sheep bleat down the aisle
toward the Council) Get those
goddam things out of here!
FARMER
(right back)
Tell me where to take them! You don't
have an answer for that so quick, do
you?
Bailiffs and sergeants-at-arms respond to the im-
precations of the COUNCIL and attempt to capture
the sheep and the farmers, having to restrain one
who looks like he's going to bodily attack
Mulwray.
FARMER
(through above, to Mulwray) You
steal the water from the Valley, ruin
the grazing, starve my livestock— who's
paying you to do that, Mr. Mulwray,
that's what I want to know!
OMITTED
The ⊕ ends and we cut to Los Angeles River bed
where Gittes watches Mulwray through binoculars.
Let's take a look at these first ten pages, which set up the story.
The main character, Jake Gittes, is introduced in his office, show-
ing photographs of Curly's wife being unfaithful.
We learn things about Gittes. On page 1, for example, we find
that he "looks cool and brisk in a white linen suit despite the heat."
He is shown to be a meticulous man who uses his "handkerchief to
wipe away the plunk of perspiration on his desk." When he walks up
the steps of City Hall a few pages ε, he is "impeccably dressed."
These visual descriptions convey character traits that reflect his per-
sonality. Notice how Gittes is not physically described at all; he's not
tall, thin, fat, short, or anything else. He seems like a nice guy. "I
122 —SCREENPLAY —
wouldn't take your last dime," he says. "What kind of a guy do you
think I am?" Yet he offers Curly a drink from a "cheaper bottle of
bourbon from the several fifths of more expensive whiskeys." He's
vulgar, yet exudes a certain amount of charm and sophistication.
He's the kind of man who wears monogrammed shirts and carries
silk handkerchiefs, who has his shoes shined and hair cut at least
once a week.
On page 4, Towne reveals the dramatic situation visually in the
stage directions: "on the pebbled glass can be read J.J. GITTES and
Associates—DISCREET INVESTIGATION." Gittes is a private detective
who specializes in divorce work, or "other people's dirty linen," as
the cop Loach says about him. ε, we'll learn he's an ex-cop who
left the force; when Escobar tells him he made lieutenant, Gittes suf-
fers a twinge of envy.
The dramatic premise is established on page 5 when the phony
Mrs. Mulwray informs Jake Gittes, "My husband, I believe, is seeing
another woman." That statement sets up everything that follows:
Gittes, the ex-cop, "checks out the detailing of Mrs. Mulwray's
dress—her handbag, shoes, etc." That's his job, and he's very good at
what he does.
When Gittes tracks down and takes pictures of "the little twist"
Mulwray is supposedly having an affair with, as far as he is con-
cerned, the case is closed. The next κ he's surprised to find the
pictures he took on the front page of the newspaper, with headlines
declaring that the head of the Department of Water and Power has
been "caught" in a love nest. He doesn't know how his pictures got
into the paper. When he returns to his office he is further surprised
to find the real Mrs. Mulwray there to greet him—the key incident
and the ⊗ Point at the end of Act I.
"Do you know me?" she asks.
"No," Gittes replies. "I would have remembered."
"Since you agree we've never met, you must also agree that I
haven't hired you to do anything—certainly not spy on my hus-
band," she says. As she leaves, her attorney hands Gittes a complaint
that could take his license away and smear his name and reputation.
Gittes doesn't know what's going on. If this woman is the real
— SETTING UP THE STORY— 123
Mrs. Mulwray, who was the woman who hired him, and why? More
important, who hired the woman to hire him? Someone has gone to
a lot of trouble to set him up. "I'm not the one who's supposed to be
caught with my pants down," he says. He's going to find out who's
responsible, and why. That is Jake Gittes's dramatic need, and it
drives him through the story until he solves the mystery.
The dramatic premise—"My husband, I believe, is seeing an-
other woman"—sets up the direction of the screenplay. And direc-
tion, remember, is "a line of ⊧."
In the interview I did with Robert Towne, he said he approached
Chinatown from the point of view that "some crimes are punished
because they can be punished. If you kill somebody, rob or rape
somebody, you'll be caught and thrown into jail. But crimes against
an entire community you really can't punish, so you end up reward-
ing them. You know, those people who get their names on streets
and plaques at City Hall. And that's the basic point of view of the
story."
"You know something, Jake?" Curly tells Gittes on page 2. "I
think I'll kill her," meaning his wife.
Gittes responds with the prophetic lines that illustrate the
script's point of view. "You gotta be rich to kill somebody, anybody,
and get away with it. You think you got that kind of dough, you
think you got that kind of class?"
Curly certainly can't get away with murder, but Noah Cross,
Evelyn Mulwray's father and former head of the Department of
Water and Power along with Hollis Mulwray, can and does get away
with it. The ⊥ of the film shows Noah Cross whisking his
daughter/granddaughter into the ι after Evelyn Mulwray is
killed trying to escape. That is Towne's point of view: "You gotta be
rich to kill somebody, anybody, and get away with it."
That brings us to the "crime" of Chinatown, a scheme based on
the water scandal known as the Rape of the Owens Valley. It is the
backdrop of Chinatown.
In 1900, the city of Los Angeles, "a desert community," as former
mayor Bagby reminds us, was growing and expanding so fast it was
literally running out of water. If the city was to survive, it had to find
124 —SCREENPLAY—
another source of water. L.A. is right next door to the Pacific Ocean.
"You can swim in it, you can fish in it, you can sail on it, but you
can't drink it, you can't water your lawns with it, and you can't irri-
gate an orange grove with it," Bagby argues.
The closest water to L.A. is the Owens River, located in the
Owens Valley, a green and fertile area about 250 miles northeast of
Los Angeles. A group of businessmen, community leaders, and
politicians—some would call them "men of vision"—saw the need
for water and conceived a marvelous scheme. They would buy up
the river rights to the Owens River, by force if necessary, then buy
up all that worthless land in the San Fernando Valley, about 20 miles
outside L.A. Then they would place a bond issue on the ballot that
would fund building an aqueduct from the Owens Valley across 250
miles of blazing desert and jagged foothills to the San Fernando
Valley. Then they would turn around and sell the now "fertile" land
of the San Fernando Valley to the city of Los Angeles for an enor-
mous sum of money, about $300 million.
That was the plan. The government knew about it, the newspa-
pers knew about it, the local politicians knew about it. When the
time was right, the authorities would "influence" the people of Los
Angeles to pass the proposed bond issue.
In 1906, Los Angeles was in the ⊦ of a drought. Things got
bad, then worse. People were forbidden to wash their cars or water
their lawns; they couldn't flush their toilets more than a few times a
κ. The city dried up; flowers died, lawns turned brown, and scare
headlines declared, "Los Angeles is dying of thirst!" and "Save our
city!"
To underscore the drastic need for water during the drought and
to make certain the citizens passed the bond issue, the Department
of Water and Power dumped thousands of gallons of water into the
ocean.
When it came time to vote, the bond issue passed easily. The
Owens Valley aqueduct took several years to complete. When it was
finished, William Mulholland, then head of the Department of
Water and Power, turned the water over to the city: "There it is," he
said. "Take it."
Los Angeles flourished and grew like wildfire; the Owens Valley
— SETTING UP THE STORY— 125
withered and died. No wonder it was called the Rape of the Owens
Valley.
Robert Towne took this scandal from 1906 and used it as the
backdrop in Chinatown. He changed the time period from the turn
of the century to 1937, when the visual elements of Los Angeles had
the classic and distinctive look of Southern California.
The water scandal that Noah Cross (how appropriate his name)
conceives and executes, the crime that causes the deaths of Hollis
Mulwray, Leroy the drunk, Ida Sessions, and finally Evelyn Mulwray,
the scandal that Jake Gittes uncovers, is woven with great subtlety
and skill through the entire screenplay.
And Noah Cross gets away with murder.
All this is established and set up on page 8, when Gittes is in the
council chambers and we hear Bagby arguing that "eight and a half
million dollars is a fair price to pay to keep the deserts from our
streets—and not on top of them."
Hollis Mulwray, the character modeled on William Mulholland,
replies that the dam site is unsafe, as proven by the previous Van der
Lip Dam disaster, and says, "I won't build it. It's that simple—I am
not making that kind of mistake twice." By refusing to build the
dam, Hollis Mulwray becomes a target for murder; he is an obstacle
that must be eliminated.
Again, on page 10, the dramatic question of the screenplay is
raised: "You steal the water from the Valley, ruin the grazing, starve
my livestock," yells the farmer who invades the chambers. "Who's
paying you to do that, Mr. Mulwray, that's what I want to know!"
So does Gittes.
It is the question that propels the story to its final ⊡, and
it is all set up from the very ⊤, in the first ten pages, and
moves forward in a linear direction to the end.
"Either you bring the water to L.A., or you bring L.A. to the wa-
ter," Noah Cross tells Gittes.
That is the foundation of the entire story. That's what makes it
so great.
It's that simple.
126 —SCREENPLAY—
Watch Chinatown. See how the backdrop of the action, the scandal,
is introduced. See if you can design your ⊨ ten pages in such
a way that you introduce the main character, state the dramatic
premise, and sketch the dramatic situation in the most cinematic
way.
Two Incidents
"Incident: A specific occurrence or event
that occurs in connection to something
else."
—The New World Dictionary
A few years ago I was given the opportunity of working with
the writer Joe Eszterhas in a complicated legal case. Called
as an expert witness, I was engaged to go through the entire
work of this noted screenwriter, analyze the material, and
then, in outline form, lay out "the structural essence" of his
screenplays. In other words, what was it that made Joe
Eszterhas's material so singular and unique; what made Joe
Eszterhas "Joe Eszterhas"?
It was a daunting and intriguing assignment. I didn't know
what to do or how to begin, except to begin at the ⊤,
by reading his screenplays and noting the similarities and
distinctions in the creation of Eszterhas's style.
As I began reading and analyzing his work, I became
aware of several factors that seemed to make his scripts so
powerful, whether they were action-thrillers like Basic Instinct,
Jagged Edge, Jade, and Sliver, or dramatic and
contemporary pieces like Music Box, Flashdance, and even
the ill-wrought Showgirls.
In all his work I saw he was dealing with real people in real
situations, and his characters were interesting, tough, with a
sense of bravado that covered a deep well of insecurity and
sometimes a lack of self-respect. For instance, the Jennifer
Beals character in Flashdance had a sense of creative and
defiant confidence within her that engaged reader and
audience. And there was the music, of course, woven into
the story of the girl who overcame all odds—physical,
128 —SCREENPLAY —
mental, and emotional—to achieve her dream. A steelworker
by κ and a pole dancer by ι, she had a visual appeal
to a vast moviegoing audience. The film was an enormous
hit.
As I began to get more familiar with Joe Eszterhas's
scripts, I noticed that he thrust the reader and audience into
the story line immediately. In most cases, he began his
stories with an action ⊟ that plunged the main
character directly into the story line.
In Basic Instinct, the first words of the script—"It is dark;
we don't see clearly"—set the tone. The visual directions
continue. "A man and woman make love on a brass bed.
There are mirrors on the walls and ceiling. On a side table,
atop a small mirror, lines of cocaine. A tape deck PLAYS the
Stones: 'Sympathy for the Devil.' "
It is a graphic, wild, and erotic sex ⊕, the tempo tight
and passion high; as it builds in rhythm, the words get
shorter and shorter. "He is inside her... arms tied above
him... on his back... eyes closed... she moves...
grinding... he strains for her... his head arches back... his
throat white... she arches her back... her hips grind... her
breasts are high..." and then, at the height of the sexual
frenzy, "Her back arches back... back... her head tilts
back... she extends her arms... her right arm comes down
suddenly. .. the steel flashes... his throat is white... he bucks,
writhes, bucks, convulses..." and the ice pick flashes up
and down, "and up... and down... and up... and...."
When I first read this ⊨ ⊕ I was totally riveted,
focused, eager to continue reading and see what happened.
The more I read, the more I was hooked. I had been
attracted, engaged, and totally captured by the visual action
of the first page.
It's a perfect example of what I call a visual "grabber," an
⊨ that grabs you by the throat and seizes your
attention. What better elements can you open a screenplay
with than intense passion, wild sex, horrific murder, and
visual mayhem, set to the music of The Stones, to boldly
establish the style and tone of an entire screenplay? It's just a
great ⊨.
The next θ, the main character, Nick Curran
(⊯ Douglas), a tough, hard-nosed, cynical cop with too
many years on the force for his relatively youthful age,
investigates the crime ⊕
— TWO INCIDENTS— 129
along with his partner and learns that the likely suspect,
Catherine (Sharon Stone), is a smart, beautiful, and
accomplished novelist. And while he questions her, Nick is
immediately attracted as she daringly flaunts her sexuality at
him. It's easy to see why he's smitten and intrigued by her,
and we know the temptation she offers is going to hook him.
It doesn't take too long before he becomes so infatuated
with her that he can't listen to his ⊞ of reason, or his
associates' warnings, as he plunges headlong into a
tumultuous affair that costs him his job and may wind up
costing him his life.
I began to understand that this ⊨ sex/murder
⊕ is the incident that sets the story in motion and
directly draws the main character into the story line. The
murder is committed to grab our attention and show us the
reason Nick is called upon to investigate the crime. When he
leaves the ⊕ of the crime, we follow him and his partner
and begin to learn more about this man and the choices he
makes. The ⊨ ⊕ and the story that's going to
unfold are directly linked.
This incident—the murder—and the story of a cop giving
in to his temptations epitomize the illumination of character
and incident. Remember Henry James: "What is character
but the determination of incident? And what is incident but
the illumination of character?" You can't reveal a character
dramatically (or comed-ically) unless you have him/her react
to a particular incident; the nature of drama, after all, is to
show the universal connection between all humans,
regardless of race, color, gender, or cultural differences.
The incident of the murder leads directly to the infatuation
Nick feels for Catherine. And that attraction is reinforced
when the police question Catherine as the prime suspect.
There is a relationship between these two incidents. One
incident, the ⊨ sex/ murder, is called the inciting
incident, because it sets the story in motion; it is the first visual
representation of the key incident, what the story is about,
and draws the main character into the story line. Remember
the definition of incident: "a specific event or occurrence that
occurs in relation to something else."
When I understood this connection, it was almost a
revelation. Using an ⊨ ⊟ to draw the main
character into the
130 —SCREENPLAY—
story line is pure cinema. From here on through the rest of
the screenplay, the story is set up, the characters and
premise are established, and there is a story line, a direction
to follow—and all because of the connection between these
two incidents. This new understanding gave me another
tool to use in the craft of screen-writing.
I went back through all of Eszterhas's scripts and began
to examine his screenplays, focusing on how he wrote
and structured ⊨ scenes or sequences. And I saw, in
most cases, that the ⊨ ⊕, the inciting incident,
was a cinematic tool he used to set up the story from page
one, word one.
I began to see that in certain kinds of movies—action
films, action-thrillers, mysteries, action-adventures, sci-fis,
even dramas— writers structure their stories so that this
⊨, the inciting incident, serves two distinct functions.
First, it grabs or hooks the audience immediately—just look at
the ⊨ scenes or sequences of The Matrix, Jaws, Cold
Mountain, The Bridges of Madison County, American Beauty,
Pulp Fiction, Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring,
Rushmore, The Royal Tenenbaums, and other films, and
you'll see that this ⊨ ⊕ or ⊟ is what sets
the entire story in motion.
For example, in The Matrix, a squad of policemen
confronts Trinity, and as we watch her defy all known laws of
physics and gravity, leaping over buildings to escape, we are
drawn into a world of cyberspace that grabs our attention
immediately. The inciting incident anchors us to the edge of
our seats, and lets us know that we're in for an incredible
adventure. In Jaws, the late-ι beach party and a nude
swimming lark turn into a horrifying experience as the great
white attacks.
In Cold Mountain, Union troops burrow underground and
plant explosives beneath the Confederate camp; when the
charge is detonated the result illustrates the total madness of
war, just as in the classic The Bridge on the River Kwai (⊯
Wilson and Carl Foreman). In The Bridges of Madison County
(Richard LaGravenese), after the death of Francesca (Meryl
Streep), her two grown children are going through her things
and uncover a hidden diary. As they read, they discover that
their mother had a love affair with a man named
— TWO INCIDENTS— 131
Robert (Clint Eastwood) many years earlier. The story of that
affair becomes the entire movie. Discovering the diary,
which sets the story in motion, is the inciting incident. In
American Beauty, we see the "dead" life of Lester Burnham
as he begins another κ of remorse, regret, and failed
dreams. In Pulp Fiction, we see Honey Bunny and Pumpkin
discuss holding up the restaurant; when they pull out their
guns we freeze the action and cut away to Jules and
Vincent, driving to their assignment, recovering a briefcase
for Marcellus Wallace. In Lord of the Rings, we open with
the history of the ring, then watch as Bilbo Baggins finds it
at the bottom of the river. This is the inciting incident that
sets the entire trilogy in motion.
I could cite example after example of the inciting incident,
but what I feel is most important is the understanding that
this incident serves two important and necessary functions in
the craft of storytelling: ( 1 ), it sets the story in motion; and
(2), it grabs the attention of the reader and audience. Seeing
the relationship between this first incident and the story line
is essential to an understanding of good screenwriting.
The next time you go to a movie, or watch one on DVD or
on television, see if you can identify the inciting incident and
notice how it sets things in motion. Crimson Tide is one of my
favorite examples. In the ⊨ ⊟, a CNN news
reporter is stationed on the deck of a French aircraft carrier
and shows us actual newsreel footage of Russian rebels
forcefully occupying the Kremlin in an attempt to take over
the government. We then cut to a shot of the rebel
leader stating emphatically that the rebel forces will not
tolerate any U.S. intervention and, having occupied a
Russian nuclear base, feel no hesitation in launching a
nuclear missile attack against the United States. Then we
cut to a TV screen, with Ron Hunter (Denzel Washington)
and Weps (Viggo Mortensen) watching the news story during
a birthday party for Ron's three-year-old daughter.
Why is this the inciting incident? Because it sets the story
in motion. (It's also a good illustration of the Henry James
quote.) Crimson Tide is constructed around the way two
people see the world. In response to the Russian rebel
threat, a U.S. submarine, the
132 —SCREENPLAY—
Alabama, carrying live nuclear warheads, is sent out as a
precautionary measure—either launch a "first-strike" missile
or retaliate against Russian missiles. The Captain (Gene
Hackman) believes that "war is an extension of politics," and
it is his duty to carry out his orders even if it means a nuclear
holocaust. Ron, the executive officer, on the other hand,
believes that because of nuclear weapons, war is an
outmoded concept. The purpose of war, he says, is to win,
and if both sides launch nuclear weapons, there will be no
winner, only losers. War, he believes, is no longer a viable
option.
That's when the Alabama receives orders to launch a first-
strike nuclear attack against the Russians rebels. As they are
preparing to launch the weapons, the men on the
submarine receive another emergency message that is cut
off before the entire text can be transmitted. What do these
second orders say? Should they continue to follow the first
orders and launch a first strike? Or will they delay the launch
to confirm or deny the first order?
These two differing points of view, these two belief systems,
generate the ⊖ that drives the script forward. Both
points of view are right within the framework of character.
There is no right and wrong here, no good or bad. Hegel,
the great eighteenth-century German philosopher,
maintained that the essence of tragedy derives not from one
character being right and the other being wrong, or from the
⊖ of good versus evil, but from a ⊖ in which both
characters are right, and thus the tragedy is one of "right
against right," being carried to its logical ⊩.
Both characters in Crimson Tide operate from that sense
of truth within themselves. The Captain maintains that the
situation demands that he follow the first orders received.
The executive officer does not agree, and claims that the
second order, even though not completely received,
overrides the first and must be confirmed before they launch
their first-strike missiles. Nobody is right or wrong in this
⊖, because both men's actions are determined by their
point of view, the way they see the world.
As I repeat often, all drama is ⊖: Without ⊖ you
have no action; without action you have no character;
without character you have no story; and without story you
have no screenplay.
The Russian rebels have threatened to launch a nuclear
missile
— TWO INCIDENTS— 133
attack on the U.S., and this ⊖ becomes the foundation
of the entire film. And it's all set up in the inciting incident that
opens the m. It sets the story in motion. That is its function.
Depending on the kind of story you're writing, the inciting
incident will either be action-driven or character-driven. It
does not have to be a tense action or dramatic ⊟—
it can be a ⊕ involving a situation. In Chinatown, the
inciting incident is Gittes's being hired by the phony Mrs.
Mulwray, and the key incident comes when the real Mrs.
Mulwray confronts Gittes. The inciting incident always leads
us to the key incident, which is the hub of the story line, the
engine that powers the story forward. The key incidentreveals
to us what the story is about.
In Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, the history
of the ring is revealed in the first few pages as it is being
forged in the fires of Mount Doom: There were "20 rings
made, three were given to the Elves... seven to the Dwarf-
Lords,... and nine rings were girted to the race of Men... but
they were all of them deceived.. ."Another ring was made:
"One Ring to rule them all..." Then, in a series of cinematic
vignettes, we trace its path of power and evil: "And some
things that should not have been forgotten... were lost." We
see Gollum worship the ring, then lose it, and it lies there,
forgotten, until Bilbo Baggins finds it at the bottom of a murky
pool and takes it home to the Shire.
So it begins. This prologue, this inciting incident, is what
grabs our attention, and through the ⊞-over narration
and various images it gives us the information we need to
know, thus setting up the entire story of the three episodes of
Lord of the Rings.
Once we've established the inciting incident, the story
begins. The Wizard Gandalf arrives in the Shire and we're
introduced to him as well as to Frodo, Sam, and the others
as Bilbo throws his birthday celebration. Time for him to
move on, Bilbo tells Gandalf. When the Wizard hears Bilbo's
farewell and watches him disappear at his birthday
celebration, he demands to see the ring. Immediately, we see
the effect the ring has on Bilbo; he's rude, mean, and turns
nasty until Gandalf confronts him. And then, when Bilbo
leaves on his journey, his nephew Frodo inherits the ring. It is
the key incident in the story line; Frodo's inheritance, his
dramatic need, is to return
134 —SCREENPLAY —
the ring to the fires of Mount Doom and destroy it. That is
what the story is all about. And when Gandalf learns the
origins, history, and mystery of the ring, when he learns of its
power, only then does he realize that Sauron's riders, the
dark forces of evil, are at this very moment searching for the
ring. It is too dangerous for it to remain in the Shire. Frodo,
by fate, destiny, or karma, becomes the ring bearer; the ring
now becomes his physical, emotional, and mental burden to
bear.
This is the key incident of the screenplay. It begins Frodo's
journey to Mount Doom. The journey begins and the
Fellowship of the Ring is formed.
The inciting incident and the key incident—Bilbo's finding
the ring and Frodo's, by necessity and design, inheriting it
and taking responsibility for it—are related. These two
incidents are essential parts of the whole that must be
established when you are setting up the screenplay.
Many times the key incident and ⊗ Point I are the
η. American Beauty represents this very well. When we
first meet Lester Burnham, he tells us in ⊞-over
narration, "I'm forty-two
years old. In less than a year, I'll be dead In a way, I'm
dead
already." We're introduced to his family, watch as they
prepare for the κ. As they drive to work and school, Lester
says in a ⊞-over: "My wife and daughter think I'm this
gigantic loser, and they're
right _ I have lost something. I'm not sure what it was, but... I
feel
sedated But you know, it's never too late to get it back."
American Beauty is a story of resurrection and rebirth, of
finding a reason, or purpose, for living. Lester's loaded little
statement is what sets the story in motion; it is the inciting
incident. In ⊞-over narration, it tells us that Lester
Burnham is a man who wants to regain his sense of
aliveness, his sense of well-being, his sense of contentment.
That's his dramatic need. Once this is established in the
⊨ scenes, we follow Lester, wife Carolyn, and
daughter Jane as they go through their "κ in the life." Lester
goes to his job, which he hates; real estate agent Carolyn is
determined to sell a house; and Jane goes off to school.
Then, in one of my favorite scenes, they come home and
we see them at dinner. From the outside it looks warm and
inviting, like a Norman Rockwell picture of
— TWO INCIDENTS— 135
the ideal American family. But that's only on the outside; on
the inside, they're totally dysfunctional.
ε, Jane and her friend Angela are preparing to
perform their cheerleader routine at the basketball half-time
festivities. Carolyn insists on coming to watch because she
wants to "support" their daughter. Lester doesn't want to be
there: "I'm missing the James Bond marathon on TNT."
They arrive, get settled, then watch the group perform their
routine. Lester's attention is drawn to Angela, and as he
focuses on her, we get closer and closer to her and enter the
subjective realm of Lester's head. In a dazzling cinematic
display, we see his vision of Angela. The external sound
stops, the music gets wacky, and we γ close on
Angela. Now her routine turns into an erotic, hypnotic
display of fantasy and suggestion.
This is a marvelous filmic presentation of the key incident
of the movie, because it is this incident that totally turns Lester's
life around. Not only is it the key incident of the film, it's also
⊗ Point I. Seeing Lester's fantasy is the incident, episode,
or event that hooks into the action and spins it around in
another direction, in this case Act II. Lester is suddenly
brought back to life. It is a ⊟ that visually illustrates
what the story is all about: Angela becomes the focus of
Lester's fantasy, his infatuation, the very reason and purpose
of his being alive, something to live for. This is shown after
the half-time festivities, when Lester makes a fool of himself
fawning over Angela. "Could he be any more pathetic?" Jane
asks her friend after her parents leave.
Of course, he is pathetic, but Lester's reawakening is the
key incident in the screenplay. To show this we cut to Lester
lying awake in the glow of his fantasy, watching, in his mind's
eye, Angela beckoning to him on a carpet of rose petals. He
says, "I feel like I've been in a coma for about twenty years
and I'm just now waking up." His journey into "life" is about
to begin. How he does this and the changes and obstacles
he confronts are what this story is all about.
At the end, he is happy and content as he sits in the
kitchen looking at pictures of his family taken many years
before, when they were "startlingly happy." He stares at these
photographs, and a smile appears on his face, a "deep
satisfied smile" of peace and contentment. And then the gun
enters the frame and the trigger is pulled.
136 —SCREENPLAY—
The key incident is what literally spins Lester's life around
in another direction and initiates his emotional journey, his
transformation from despair to happiness. In this case, the
key incident and ⊗ Point I happen to be the η thing.
There are times when this happens, and other times when it
doesn't. The inciting incident and the key incident are related,
but not always in the η way. It all depends on the story
you're telling. There are no magic formulas in screenwriting.
In Mystic River, the inciting incident is in the past, when
Dave (Tim Robbins) was abducted by the two perverts; it sets
the story in motion and leads to the key incident: the
discovery of Jimmy's (Sean Penn's) murdered daughter. It
connects the story line in terms of "Who committed the
murder?" to the inciting incident with Dave that opened the
movie. In The Shawshank Redemption, we see the inciting
incident wrapped in three different events: Andy on trial, Andy
drunk in his car loading his gun, and Andy watching his wife
and her boyfriend in a sexual embrace.
Many people wonder about the distinctions between the
dramatic premise—what the story is about (as mentioned
in Chapter 2)—and the key incident we're talking about. Are
they the η? Both deal with the foundation of the story
line, but the dramatic premise could be said to be a
conceptual description of what the story is about, while the key
incident would be that specific ⊕ or ⊟ that is the
dramatic visualization of what the story is about.
Sometimes the key incident will be something that has
affected your character's life at an earlier time, as in Mystic
River. Sometimes the story is about the person trying to
piece together the fragments of his or her life. In The Bourne
Supremacy, for example, the key incident is the murders
Jason Bourne committed as a member of the Treadstone
mission years earlier. He's on a quest to rediscover his past.
Everything bounces off and revolves around this key incident;
the whole story leads up to it.
The Manchurian Candidate (Daniel Pyne and Dean
Georgaris; original screenplay by George Axelrod, based
on the novel by Richard Condon) is very much the η; a
key incident is "buried" within Ben Marco's (Denzel
Washington's) mind and he has to unlock its mysteries before
he can achieve his dramatic need. The η
— TWO INCIDENTS— 137
with Ordinary People; the entire screenplay revolves around
the key incident of the drowning, which occurs before the
story begins but is emotionally pieced together like a jigsaw
puzzle and finally seen in its totality at ⊗ Point II.
When you begin writing your screenplay, it's essential that
you know the distinctions between the inciting incident and
the key incident. Why are they so important in setting up
and establishing your story line? If we go back to Henry
James's statement—"What is character but the
determination of incident? And what is incident but the
illumination of character?"—we see that the force of the key
incident affects both the internal and external aspects of your
character and story, as in Mystic River and Finding
Neverland (David Magee).
Act I is a unit of dramatic action that is approximately
twenty or thirty pages long; it begins at the ⊤ of the
screenplay and goes to the ⊗ Point at the end of Act I. It is
held together with the dramatic context known as the setup.
If you recall, context is the empty space that holds the
content in place. This unit of dramatic action sets up your
story; it sets up the situation and the relationships between
the characters, and establishes the necessary information
so the reader knows what's happening and the story can
unfold clearly.
The first ten pages of your screenplay, as mentioned,
establish three specific things. The main character is
introduced so we know who the story is about. In Basic
Instinct, after the murder, ⊯ Douglas is brought into
the story when he investigates the crime ⊕. Who
committed the murder and why? In American Beauty we
know immediately that the story is about Lester Burnham; he
is the main character. In Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of
the Ring, we immediately meet Frodo as Gandalf rides into
the Shire.
The second thing we create within this first ten-page unit
of action is the dramatic premise. What is this story about?
We can state it through ⊘, as in Chinatown, or show
it visually, through the inciting incident, as in Crimson Tide.
The third thing we need to establish is the situation, the
circumstances surrounding the action, as in Mystic River, or
Finding Neverland, or Sideways.
The two incidents provide the foundation of the story line.
The
138 —SCREENPLAY—
inciting incident sets the story in motion and the key
incident establishes the story; it is the dramatic premise
executed. If the key incident is the hub of the story, then all
things—the actions, reactions, thoughts, memories, or
flashbacks—are tethered to this one incident. So, you can
tell your story in a linear fashion, as in Basic Instinct; or in
flashback, as in American Beauty, The Bourne Supremacy,
or The Manchurian Candidate; or even in a nonlinear way, as
in Pulp Fiction.
Pulp Fiction is an interesting film to examine within the
context of these two incidents. When I first considered
trying to identify and define them in Tarantino's movie, I
thought I was trying to put a round peg into a square hole.
Was I trying to force the issue? Or was it something that I
could now see differently as a result of my new awareness? I
didn't really have an answer, so I decided to just take a look
and see what I came up with.
So I traced my history with Pulp Fiction. To begin with,
everybody knows Pulp Fiction has had a tremendous impact
on world cinema. When it first came out, you either loved it or
hated it. When I first saw it I hated it. But everyone kept telling
me how wonderful it was, how different and intriguing,
definitely a landmark film. Though I didn't agree with that, I
had to acknowledge that Pulp Fiction sparked a new
awareness in the filmgoer's consciousness. In my workshops
and seminars around the world, everyone was talking about
its impact.
Even though we were riding the wave of a technology
revolution in the mid-'90s, as far as I was concerned the real
revolution was going to manifest itself more in terms of
technology than in form and content—that is, what you
showed and how'you showed it. Pulp Fiction was definitely a
part of that.
When I began to reexamine it, I asked myself what made
Pulp Fiction so influential. The answer, I knew, was in the
screenplay. Was it the structure? Was it one of the
characters getting killed in the ⊦ of the movie and then
the film's coming back to the events that led up to his death?
Was it the three stories? The bookend ⊨ and closing?
When you read the screenplay of Pulp Fiction, the first
thing you see is the title page; it states that Pulp Fiction is
really "three
— TWO INCIDENTS— 139
stories ... about one story." When you turn the page, there
are two dictionary definitions of Pulp: "a soft, moist, shapeless
mass of matter," and "a magazine or book containing lurid
subject matter and being characteristically printed on rough,
unfinished paper." That's certainly an accurate description of
the film. But on the third page, you might be surprised to find
a Table of Contents. Kill Bill I and II is that way too; in fact, it
has not only a Table of Contents, but chapter headings as
well.
I thought that was odd; who puts a Table of Contents in
a screenplay? It states very clearly that the film is broken
down into five individual parts: Part I, the Prologue; Part II,
Vincent Vega and Marcellus Wallace's Wife; Part III, The
Gold Watch; Part IV, The Bonnie Situation; and Part V, the
Epilogue.
As I studied the script, I saw that all three stories really
bounce off the key incident: Jules and Vincent retrieving
Marcellus Wallace's briefcase from the four kids. I saw that
this one incident was really the hub of all three stories, and
noticed that each story is structured as a whole, in linear
fashion; it starts at the ⊤ of the action, goes into the
⊦, then proceeds to the end. Each section is like a short
story, presented from a different character's point of view.
Thinking in terms of "three stories about one story"
allowed me to see the film as one unified whole. Pulp Fiction is
three stories surrounded by a prologue and an epilogue, what
screenwriters call a bookend technique. The Bridges of
Madison County, Sunset Boulevard (Billy Wilder and Charles
Brackett), Saving Private Ryan, and American Beauty use this
technique as well.
The Prologue sets up Pumpkin and Honey Bunny in a
coffee shop discussing various types of small-time robbery. It
sets the first and last stories in motion. When the two finish
their meal, they pull out their guns and announce the
robbery. The film freezes and we cut to the main titles. Then
we cut into the ⊦ of a ⊘ between Jules (Samuel
L. Jackson) and Vincent (John Travolta) as they are driving,
having an enlightening discussion about the relative merits
of a Big Mac here and abroad.
This little exchange sets up their characters, and when
they stop and pull out their weapons we see the
contradiction between their
140 —SCREENPLAY —
words and their actions. It literally sets up the film and tells
us everything we need to know: The two men are killers
working for Marcellus Wallace; their job, their dramatic need,
is to retrieve the briefcase. That's the true ⊤ of the
story. In Part I, Jules and Vincent arrive, state their position,
reclaim the briefcase, then kill three of the four guys they
encounter. It's only by the grace of God they're not killed
themselves. Only one other person, Marvin, survives, at
least for the moment.
Vincent takes Mia Wallace (Uma Thurmond) out to dinner,
and after she accidentally overdoses, they say good ι.
Part III is about Butch and his gold watch and what
happens when he wins the fight instead of losing it as he had
agreed to do. In the ⊦ of this section Butch (Bruce
Willis) kills Vincent, who is at his apartment looking for him.
Part IV deals with cleaning up Marvin's remains, which are
splattered all over the car, a continuation of Part I. That's
followed by the Epilogue, where Jules talks about his trans-
formation and the significance of Divine Intervention and
then Pumpkin and Honey Bunny resume the holdup that
began in the Prologue. Pulp Fiction is a very novelistic
presentation, as are Kill Bill I and II.
It became very clear that no matter what form a film
takes, whether linear or nonlinear, there is always going to
be an inciting incident and a key incident. Kill Bill I and // is
based entirely on the key incident of the story—the killing of
The Bride's (Uma Thurman's) wedding party—and like Pulp
Fiction is driven by the ⊙ of revenge and unfolds in a
novelistic way, complete with a Table of Contents and
individual chapters, one of the interesting changes
happening in the form right now.
Structuring a nonlinear movie means defining each part,
then structuring each section, whether in present time or
past time, from ⊤ to end, at which point the
screenwriter can build and arrange the parts in any order he
or she desires. Courage Under Fire (Patrick Sheane Duncan)
is a good example of this, as is Groundhog κ (Danny
Rubin, Harold Ramis), The Usual Suspects, The English
Patient, and Sliding Doors (Peter Howitt). These screenplays
are introduced with the inciting incident, then structured
around the key incident. Take a look at any of these films and
see if you can identify
— TWO INCIDENTS— 141
and make the distinction between the inciting incident and
the key incident.
In my screenwriting workshops, I have my students
focus on and define these two incidents before they write
one word of screenplay. Once they know what the incidents
are, they can fuse the action, characters, and events into a
structured line of dramatic action, whether using a linear or
nonlinear story line. It's important to remember that structure
is not something embedded in concrete, or something that
is unbending, or unyielding; rather, it is flexible, like a tree
that bends in the wind but doesn't break. Understanding this
concept allows you to play with the plotline so you can tell your
stories visually, with ⊚ action rather than explanation.
This is a relatively new shift in the craft of screenwriting.
It wasn't too long ago that characters had to explain who
they were, what their background was, and what their
motivation or purpose was. Things were explained through
the character's ⊘. As a matter of fact, explaining their
story line through ⊘ was one of the chief problems
that aspiring screenwriters had when writing their
screenplays. But there is a new generation of young people
growing up with television, wireless technology, and
PlayStation, and it's pretty obvious their visual sense is
heightened; as a result, we're expanding the craft with
stories that are more visual, while unfolding with clarity and
simplicity. It is a clear sign of evolution at work.
But though the form may be evolving, the simple tools of
storytelling remain the η. What you write is just as
important as how you write it.
And that's what it's all about.
"Writing a screenplay is in many ways simi-
lar to executing a piece of carpentry. If
you take some wood and nails and glue and
make a bookcase, only to find when you' re
done that it topples over when you try to
stand it upright, you may have created some-
thing really very beautiful, ⊮ won't
work as a bookcase."
-Adventures in the Screen Trade
William Goldman
The hardest thing about writing is knowing what to write.
When you sit down in front of 120 blank sheets of paper, the
only way you can get through that intricate tangle of
seemingly endless creative decisions, solutions, and choices
is by knowing what you're doing and where you're going. You
need a road map, a guide, a direction— a line of ⊧
leading from ⊤ to end.
You need a story line.
If you don't have one, you're in trouble. That's why it's so
easy to get lost in the maze of your own creation. James
Joyce, the great Irish novelist, once remarked that the
experience of writing is like climbing a mountain: When
you're in the ⊦ of your climb, you can only see what's
directly in front of you and what's directly above you. You can
plan only one move at a time. You can't see two or three
moves above you or how you're going to get there. Only
when you reach the top of the mountain can you look down
and gain some kind of an overview of the landscape you've
negotiated.
It's a good analogy. When you're writing a screenplay,
you can see only the page you're writing and the pages
you've written. Most of the time you can't see where you're
going or how you're going to
-⊗ POINTS — 143
get there. Sometimes you can't even see that. The ⊕
you're going to write next is only some kind of vague notion,
and you don't know whether it will work or not. You literally
have no objectivity at all— no overview.
That's why the paradigm is so important—it gives you a
direction, a line of ⊧. It's like a road map. On
the road, driving through Arizona, New Mexico, on through
the vast reaches of Texas, and across the high plains of
Oklahoma, you don't know where you are, much less where
you've been. All you can see is a flat, barren landscape,
broken only by silver flashes of the sun bouncing off the
windshields of passing cars.
When you're in the paradigm, you can't see the paradigm.
That's why ⊗ Points are so important. As defined, the
⊗ Point is "any incident, episode, or event that hooks
into the action and spins it around in another direction."
There are many ⊗ Points scattered throughout the
screenplay, but when you're confronting 120 blank sheets of
paper, you need to know only four things to structure your
story line: the ⊥, the ⊤, and ⊗ Points I and II.
The function of the ⊗ Point is simple: It moves the story
forward. ⊗ Point I and ⊗ Point II are the story points that
hold the paradigm in place. They are the anchors of your
story line.
Take another look at the paradigm:
Act I Act II Act III
?
Confrontation ⊡
T
⊗ Point ⊗ Point
I II
If you look at the screenplay as a series of story points,
or story progressions, your story line begins at the
⊤ and ends at the end, whether in linear form as in
Collateral, Thelma & Louise, or Million Dollar Baby, or in
nonlinear form as in Cold Mountain, Pulp Fiction, or The
Hours. No matter what form your story line is
144 —SCREENPLAY—
in, linear or nonlinear, it is anchored in place by ⊗
Points I and II.
Structure is the foundation, the base, the blueprint of the
screenplay; as William Goldman says, "Screenplay is
structure." If you don't know the basic structure of your story
line, you're not really ready to start writing. That's why I stress
the importance of the four things you need to know before
you put one word down on paper: the ⊥, ⊤,
and ⊗ Points I and II. If you don't know those four points,
you're in trouble. This does not mean that there are only two
⊗ Points in your screenplay. That's not the case at all. We're
dealing with the preparation you need to make before you be-
gin writing. Once you know what these two ⊗ Points are,
they will anchor your story line, hold it in place so you can
begin the writing process with freedom and creativity. When
the screenplay is completed, it may contain as many as ten
to fifteen ⊗ Points, most of which will be in Act II. How
many you have, again, depends upon your story. The
purpose of the ⊗ Point is to move the story forward, toward
the ⊡. That is its purpose.
In ⊯ Mann's high-powered thriller Collateral (tautly
written by Stuart Beattie), the action moves forward on both
a physical and emotional level. The Tom Cruise character,
Vincent, has a job to do—five contracted murders in one
ι. He forces Max (Jamie Foxx) to be his driver, makes
physical threats on his life, but pays him well to drive him
around. We discover what's happening as Max discovers
what's happening. The action moves forward to the final
shoot-out with clarity, ingenuity, character insight, and
change. The film itself is "clean, lean and tight"; there's not an
ounce of "fat," or padding, in the entire screenplay.
The thrust of the script moves relentlessly forward from
⊗ Point to ⊗ Point. As a matter of fact, the characters'
arc and the arc of the storyline impact each other, so that
each physical incident reveals a different aspect of the
characters. Foxx's cabbie goes through a strong dramatic
arc: from passive wimp to man of action; from dreamer to
achiever. And the irony, of course, is that Max is forced into
these changes by the villain of the piece; when Cruise
destroys his old life, Foxx is forced to grab the new.
— ⊗ POINTS— 145
The script opens with Vincent arriving at LAX and
exchanging a black bag with an unknown accomplice; then
we cut to and set up Max cleaning his taxi as he readies
himself for the ι shift. He picks up a fare, Annie (Jada
Pinkett Smith)—the inciting incident—and during the ride
downtown they develop an easygoing familiarity, an
attraction, for each other. He delivers Annie to the Federal
Building, and as she gets out she tells him she's a prosecutor
working an "all-nighter" on a big case and gives Max her card.
He picks up another fare, Vincent, who hires him for the
ι to make the five stops to get "signatures" on a real
estate deal he's closing. So far, it's just another ι in L.A.
As Vincent and Max banter about the state of L.A., they
get to know each other a little more. They make stop
number one, and Max is waiting in the alley behind the
building when suddenly there's a loud crash and a dead
body plunges onto the front windshield. Shocked, stunned,
disbelieving, Max is astonished to learn that Vincent killed
the man, though the hit man claims "it was the bullet and the
fall that killed him. "
That's ⊗ Point I, the key incident of the script. This is the
incident that sets in motion the entire screenplay, because
Max is now forced against his will to drive Vincent to his other
"appointments." He's virtually a prisoner. Now, the true story
begins.
Two physical actions are going on in this story: (1), Max
trying to escape from Vincent as they roam through the city;
and (2), Vincent doing his job and honoring his contracts.
As they make their appointed rounds, we watch Max
reacting to the physical action by going through an emotional
change that, step by step, leads to his transformation. In the
⊤, he's passive and weak, a wimp, afraid to stand
up to his boss at the cab company. Then he begins to gain
a little courage and tries to escape, but winds up watching
helplessly as Vincent kills two guys trying to rip off his
briefcase. They make a "random" visit to a nightclub,
ostensibly to listen to some good jazz, but in fact it's a cover
for Vincent to score his next hit. This is a nice touch, setting
us up to expect one thing, then turning it around. Then Max
is made to visit his mother at the hospital, and once again
tries to escape by running away with
146 —SCREENPLAY—
Vincent's briefcase and, in defiance, tossing it onto the
freeway. His attitude, his strength, is ⊤ to emerge;
he's starting to stand up for himself.
After the briefcase episode Vincent forces Max, as a sort of
punishment or test, to pose as him and meet Felix, the crime
boss, to get the new information about the last two hits of
the ι. Max, in a tense and dramatic moment, rustles up
his strength, threatens Felix, and manages to walk out of the
meeting alive. This is another incident where the physical
action triggers an emotional response.
The cops, who think Max is the hit man responsible for all
these murders, follow him to a nightclub, and there, on a
crowded dance floor, there is a violent shoot-out. Max tries to
get away, and when he is spotted by a cop who believes in
his innocence, he's hustled off to safety. When Vincent sees
him with the cop, however, the hit man kills the cop and
"rescues" Max.
There's one more hit for Vincent to fulfill. At this point,
two things are left unresolved. One, how is Max going to get
away from Vincent alive? And two, how is he going to prevent
Vincent's last hit? Racing away from the big shoot-out at the
nightclub, Vincent says that Max's dream of starting a limo
company is only a dream, a "someday" excursion into a
fantasy that will never happen. Max, for the first time, realizes
that he has been living a dream for twelve years. Now his
dream shattered, and knowing he'll probably be killed by
Vincent when this ordeal is over, he decides to give it all up
and live for the moment. Otherwise, "What's the point?" It is
this insight that gives him the strength to put his foot on the
gas for a wild speed run through the streets of L.A. He loses
control of the wheel and crashes the car, hitting a divider.
The car leaps into the air, hits the ground with a tremendous
crash, and rolls. ⊗ Point II.
Vincent crawls out of the torn and twisted wreckage, and
runs. Max manages to crawl out of the overturned taxi, sees
a picture of Annie, the woman he met earlier that λ,
and realizes that she is the last victim on Vincent's list.
Which happens to be the reason why Vincent was at the
Federal Building in the first place: She was supposed to be
his first hit of the ι. Max races on foot to warn Annie, and
then we go into a chase ⊟ that ends the film.
— ⊗ POINTS— 147
These two ⊗ Points anchor the story in place. ⊗
Point I is the true ⊤ of the story: the first murder and
Max's realization that Vincent is responsible for it. At ⊗
Point II, he crashes the car and stands up to Vincent, ready to
kill him if need be, in order to save Annie. Each ⊗ Point is
geared by both the emotional and physical forces working
on the character; the outside events affect the interior,
emotional life of the character and move the script to its
next level of action.
Once again, a ⊗ Point is a function of the main
character and moves the story forward. It amps up the action
and underscores the arc of the character: Vincent is a
cynical, amoral person with no values of right and wrong;
he's merely doing a job, and he's very good at it. He views
the world and everyone in it as "a cosmic accident," the
product of random chance. There's no meaning or
significance to our lives because we're nothing more than an
infinitesimal speck of dust in the vast universe. If there's no
meaning to our existence, then our lives mean nothing, so
taking a human life has little consequence. As Tolstoy said,
without God, without a moral system of right and wrong,
"anything is permissible."
Collateral is a very good example of how ⊗ Points hook
into the story line and move it forward, influencing both the
emotional and physical arc of the characters. The choices
your characters make may very well determine the course
and outcome of the story. The interplay between Max and
Vincent and the choices they make bind them together in a
unique and unusual situation that expresses the story's
dynamic in a visual, suspenseful way.
The connections and interplay between the
characters, of course, are essential to the movement and
plotline of the story. Let's take another look at Chinatown. As
a mystery-detective story, Chinatown is structured from ⊗
Point to ⊗ Point, each ⊗ Point carefully moving the
action forward from the ⊤, when Gittes is hired by
the phony Mrs. Mulwray, to the end, when Evelyn Mulwray is
killed.
The script opens with the question: Who is Mrs. Mulwray's
husband having an affair with? Gittes follows Mulwray to a
number of the city's reservoirs, then discovers him in the
company of a young
148 —SCREENPLAY—
woman. He takes pictures and returns to the office, and as far
as he's concerned, the case is closed. But the next κ, he
learns someone has released the story, along with his
pictures, to the newspaper.
Who did it? And why?
When Gittes returns to his office he finds a woman waiting
to see him. "Have you ever seen me before?" she asks. She
then tells him she is the real Mrs. Mulwray; since she did not
hire him, she's going to sue him and take away his detective
license. But if she's the real Mrs. Mulwray, who hired him to
find out who Mulwray was having an affair with? And why?
With the "love scandal" front-page news, he knows he's been
set up—framed. Someone wants him to take the fall. He's
going to find out who set him up. And why.
End of Act I.
What moment in this block of dramatic action hooks into
the action and spins it around in another direction? When
the real Mrs. Mulwray shows up. That's the key incident in
the story line.
When the real Mrs. Mulwray enters the picture, the action
shifts from a job completed to possible legal action and the
loss of Jake's license. He'd better find out who set him up—
then he'll find out why.
Act II opens with Gittes driving up to the Mulwray
house. Mrs. Mulwray tells him her husband might be at the
Oak Pass Reservoir. Gittes goes to the reservoir, and there
meets Lieutenant Escobar, a former colleague, who tells him
that Mulwray is dead— drowned, apparently in an accident.
Mulwray's death presents another problem, or obstacle,
for Gittes. Remember, the dramatic context for Act II is
Confrontation.
Gittes's dramatic need is to find out who set him up, and
why. So screenwriter Robert Towne creates obstacle after
obstacle to keep the action going. Remember, if you know
your character's dramatic need you can create obstacles to
it, and the story becomes your character's overcoming these
obstacles to achieve his/her dramatic need. Mulwray is dead.
Murdered, Gittes finds out ε. Who did it? And why? This is
a ⊗ Point within the structure of Act II to keep the story
moving forward. There are ten such ⊗ Points in the second
act of Chinatown.
Mulwray's death is an incident that moves the story
forward. Gittes is totally involved now, whether he likes it or
not. ε, he
— ⊗ POINTS— 149
receives a phone call from a mysterious "Ida Sessions": the
phony Mrs. Mulwray. She tells him to look in the obituary
column of the paper for "one of those people," whatever
that means. Then she hangs up. Soon after, Ida Sessions is
found murdered, and Escobar is certain Gittes is involved.
The ⊙ of water has been introduced several times
before, and Gittes follows it. He checks out the owners of
the land in the Valley and discovers that most of the acreage
has been sold within the last few months.
Gittes investigates, but is attacked by farmers who think
he's the man who's been poisoning their water. When he
regains consciousness, Evelyn Mulwray is there—called by
the farmers. As they drive back to L.A., Gittes discovers that
one of the names in the obituary column mentioned by Ida
Sessions is cited as being the owner of a large parcel of land
in the Valley. Strange. He died at a place called the Mar Vista
Home for the Aged. Together, Gittes and Evelyn Mulwray
drive to the retirement home. Gittes learns that most of the
new owners of the land parcels in the Valley are living at the
home, unaware of their purchases. It's phony—the whole
thing's a giant scam. As they're leaving, his suspicions
confirmed, thugs attack him, but Evelyn drives up, steps on
the gas, Gittes jumps on the running board, and they manage
to get away.
These incidents, episodes, and events are all ⊗ Points,
all story progressions that move the story forward.
Back at her house, Evelyn cleans Gittes's nose wound (for
being "too nosy"); he notices something in her eye, a slight
color defect. He leans over and kisses her. They have sex.
Afterward, they lie in bed making small talk.
The phone rings. She answers it, suddenly becomes
agitated, hangs up. She tells Gittes he must leave.
Immediately. "Something important" has come up.
At this point in the story, we still don't know two things: ( 1 )
who the girl was who was with Mulwray in the ⊤
before he was murdered; and (2) who set up Gittes, and why.
Gittes knows that the answers to the two questions are
related. There's a good chance that whoever killed Mulwray
set him up. Why, we don't know yet.
Something has come up. What? Gittes wants to find out,
so he
150 —SCREENPLAY —
tails Evelyn to a house in the Echo Park section of Los
Angeles. When he returns to Evelyn's house, he discovers a
pair of bifocals in the bottom of the fish pond. He returns to
the Echo Park house and confronts Evelyn. She tells him the
girl is her sister, then says she's her daughter. Gittes slaps
her. "I want the truth," he says. He slaps her again, and she
finally confesses that the girl is "my daughter and my sister."
At fifteen, she was the victim of incest, and now cares for her
daughter and refuses to speak to her father, Noah Cross. So,
now we know who the girl is. The second point: Who wore
the bifocals, victim or killer? Once Gittes learns the truth, he
wants to help Evelyn get away. But before he leaves, at the
end of the ⊕, in what seems to be a throwaway line, she
tells Gittes that her husband did not wear bifocals. There is
only one ⊩: The glasses were worn by the killer.
Now Gittes knows the truth: Noah Cross had a motive for
murder. It is the final answer he's seeking and the
⊡, the solution of the story.
Gittes calls Noah Cross and tells him he has "the girl,"
and to meet him at Evelyn's house. And here Gittes learns
that the man responsible for the death of Mulwray and the
others, the man responsible for the entire water scandal, is
Noah Cross. Why? "Because it's the future, Mr. Gittes. The
future." The way to create it, Cross says, is simple: "Either you
bring the water to L.A., or you bring L.A. to the water."
That's the dramatic hook of the movie. And it works,
beautifully. The premise that money, power, and influence
are corruptive forces is established; as Gittes says: "You
gotta be rich to kill somebody, anybody, and get away with
it." If you've got enough money and power, you can get away
with anything—even murder.
Gittes, now a prisoner, is taken to Chinatown so that
Cross can claim his daughter/granddaughter. When Evelyn
dies at the end of the film, Cross spirits his
daughter/granddaughter away, and does indeed get away
with murder. Ironically, the incident that drove Gittes off the
police force in Chinatown has repeated itself: "I tried to help
someone and all I ended up doing was hurting them," he
had said earlier.
Full circle, turn. Gittes can't deal with it. He has to be
restrained;
the last words of the script are forged in filmic
consciousness:
"Forget it, Jake It's Chinatown."
— ⊗ POINTS — 151
The ⊗ Points at the end of Acts I and II are there to
hook in the action and spin it around in another direction.
They are the hub of the story progression, amp the story up
to the next level, and move it forward to its dramatic
⊡.
As a simple exercise, the next time you go to the movies
or watch a film on DVD or cable (without commercial
breaks), see if you can locate the ⊗ Points at the end of
Act I and Act II. Every film you see will have definite ⊗
Points; all you have to do is find them. If you want, take a look
at your watch anywhere from twenty to thirty minutes into the
film (depending on its length, of course) and see if you can
determine what the action point is; ask yourself what's
happening, or what's going on in the story around this point
in the action. There will be some kind of incident, episode, or
event that will occur. Discover what it is, and when it occurs.
Do the η for Act II. Around eighty or ninety minutes into
the feature, check out what's happening in the story line.
What incident, episode, or event occurs that will lead us into
7
Act III, the ⊡ . What happens around this time in the
movie? It's an excellent exercise. The more you do it, the
easier it gets. Pretty soon it will be ingrained in your
consciousness; you'll grasp the essential nature of the
relationship between structure and story. Then you'll see
how the definition of dramatic structure—"a series of
related incidents, episodes, and events leading to a dramatic
⊡"— guides you through the story line. ⊗ Points
are those incidents, episodes, and events that anchor your
story line; they provide the foundation of the ⊚ line of
action.
Let's take a look at the ⊗ Points in a couple of other
films: The Matrix and Thelma & Louise.
Here's the paradigm:
Act I Act III
Set-Up \ Confrontation ⊡
We're looking for the ⊗ Points at the end of Acts I and II.
152 —SCREENPLAY —
In The Matrix, the ⊨ ⊕ shows us that this is no
ordinary action ⊟ of flying fists, fired shots, and a few
explosions. This is a totally unique ⊟; it pits Trinity,
a lone woman, against several armed policeman, all
wearing bulletproof vests. Right before our eyes, in the most
amazing physical feats, Trinity leaps up, is suspended in
midair, then runs up walls and across ceilings in order to
escape. She leaps from rooftop to rooftop, building to building,
totally disregarding gravity as she flies through the air to reach
the other side. From there, it's a race against a huge
garbage truck to reach the ringing telephone. She makes it
in the nick of time and answers the phone just as the truck
slams into the telephone booth.
Whoa... if that's not a grabber, I don't know what is. In
terms of information, we don't know who Trinity is, whether
she's a "good guy" or a "bad guy," nor do we know what the
story's about, or how she managed to escape the way she
did. But as an ⊨ this inciting incident certainly grabs
our attention.
At this point, we don't know what the story is about or who
it's about. We need some exposition here, defined as the
information needed to move the story forward, and that's
exactly what we get next. Neo, the main character, wakes up
to the words "Follow the white rabbit" on his computer
screen. There's a knock on the door; it's a girl with a white
rabbit tattooed on her shoulder. He follows her to a club.
There he meets Trinity and asks her about the Matrix. But
she doesn't explain anything; she only warns him that he's
in danger: "They're watching you." And, she stresses, "The
truth is out there, Neo, and it's looking for you and will find
you, if you want it to." Then she's gone.
What is the Matrix? Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne)
explains ε that we're inhabiting a parallel universe and
the Matrix is a state of virtual reality, an illusion that we've all
been programmed to accept as real. The truth, the "real"
world, has been destroyed and re-created by a race of
machines, artificial intelligence, and computers into a form of
virtual reality.
So begins the heroes' journey. Morpheus, the rebel
leader, is dedicated to waging war against the Matrix to
reveal "the truth," liberating humanity from the bondage of
the machines. Morpheus
— ⊗ POINTS— 153
believes in the prophecy that their only hope of winning is by
finding "The One," a human being endowed with godlike
powers who will lead them in their war of liberation. And he
believes Neo is "The One." As Morpheus tells Neo, the mind
and body are intertwined, and even though they are
separate entities, if you can control your mind you can
control reality, and thus control your destiny.
That's an ancient teaching from Eastern philosophy,
brought into a contemporary situation, futuristic in thought
and execution. Neo, like Hamlet or the warrior Arjuna in the
classic Indian tale the Bhagavad Gita, must choose his own
destiny. This ⊙ of choice, of choosing the reality you
wish to inhabit, is a recurring motif throughout the film. When
Neo goes to work the next κ, he is told he has to make a
choice: to either be Thomas Anderson by κ, or Neo, the
self-styled rebel, his true self, by ι. When he gets to his
office, Neo receives a package and a cell phone pops out,
ringing. Morpheus is on the line. He tells Neo, "They're after
you. There are only two ways for you to leave the building—
either you choose to leave by the scaffolding hanging outside
the window, or you choose to leave as a prisoner." Like
Hamlet and Arjuna, Neo embodies the stance of the
reluctant hero: Before he can rise to another, higher level of
consciousness, he must first accept himself and his destiny.
He leaves as a prisoner, and is ε wired, a bug planted
deep within him. Trinity and the others pick Neo up under
the bridge, but only after he is "debugged" will he be taken to
meet Morpheus. This fusion of the ancient and the futuristic is
embodied in the various names used in The Matrix. The rebel
ship, the Nebuchadnezzar, for example, is named after the
famed Babylonian king of the fifth century B.C. who is
credited with tearing down and rebuilding the ancient
temples; so he's both a destroyer and builder. The name fits
the ship's destiny, for it houses the small rebel band
determined to destroy the Matrix. In Greek mythology
Morpheus is the god of Sleep, responsible for weaving the
fabric of our dreams in the deep sleep state. Neo, of course,
means "new," and Trinity has several religious implications.
These mythological echoes are simply a way of adding more
insight and dimension to the story line.
At this point, the story progresses by action and
explanation. Only when Neo can accept being "The One"
can he really be "The
154 —SCREENPLAY —
One." In other words, what we believe to be true, is true. And
this sets up ⊗ Point I.
He has his first face-to-face meeting with Morpheus at
⊗ Point I. During the meeting, the key incident, Morpheus
offers Neo a choice: Either take the Blue Pill and get ordinary
reality or take the Red Pill and get the truth. Neo doesn't
hesitate—he takes the red one. Reality distorts as he falls
between the corridors of virtual reality and the netherworld. In
a ⊟ as bizarre and evocative as an H. R. Giger
painting, Neo is reborn as a man freed from the restraints of
his limited mind. As the embryo of himself, Neo must retrain
both his body and his mind until he is capable of exploring
the untapped resources of his unlimited self as seen in
martial arts contests with Morpheus.
⊗ Point I is the true ⊤ of the story; it is the
incident that hooks into the action and spins it around into
Act II. The context of Act II is Confrontation, so Neo
encounters obstacle after obstacle to achieve his dramatic
need: to know the Matrix and to be self-realized. ⊗ Point I
fulfills this function.
Neo's encounter with the Oracle is the Mid-Point of the
story. She's a great character. When I first saw the film I
expected an old, old man, extremely wise, with white hair
and possibly a long straggly beard. Instead, I was delightfully
surprised to discover a ⊦-aged woman baking cookies.
When she casually asks if he believes he's "The One," Neo
shakes his head and says, "I'm just an ordinary guy." Once
again, his belief systems, the limitations of his mind, imprison
him. Too bad, she says. Why? Neo asks. "Because
Morpheus believes in you, Neo, and no one, not even you or
me, can convince him otherwise," she says. "He believes it so
blindly that he's going to sacrifice his life for you. You're going
to have to make a choice. On one hand, you'll have
Morpheus's life... and on the other hand,
you'll have your own_One of you is going to die Which
one,
will be up to you."
She is his "mirror," reflecting what he believes, telling him
what she sees within him. His struggle guides him to the
understanding that he can wear the mantle of "The One"
only if he chooses to. Only when we can give up the
concepts of our limited self can we attain enlightenment
and liberation. The reluctant hero must
— ⊗ POINTS— 155
accept the challenge of being who he or she really is, in
much the η way that Hamlet and Arjuna must choose to
honor themselves and accept their destiny. Whether he
likes it or not, Neo is "The One" who has been chosen to
"set the times right."
When Agent Smith takes Morpheus prisoner, Neo makes
his decision to rescue him. "The Oracle told me this would
happen," Neo
says. "She told me I would have to make a choice " He
pauses, and
in an early draft of the script says, "I may not be what
Morpheus thinks I am, but if I don't try to help him, then I'm
not even what
I think I am _I'm going in after him." When he declares
himself
in this fashion, it is the first step of accepting himself as "The
One." This, then, is ⊗ Point II. It leads to the ⊡ of
the story.
At ⊗ Point I, Morpheus had asked Neo if he believed in
fate. No, Neo had replied—"Because I don't like the idea that
I'm not in control of my life." Whether he believes it or not,
whether he knows it or not, he's now in the hands of his fate,
his destiny.
After rescuing Morpheus, Neo doesn't make it out of the
Matrix in time and, in a tremendous fight ⊕, dies at the
hands of Agent Smith. As Trinity stands over Neo's inert
body, she tells him what the Oracle has told her: that she
would fall in love with the man who was "The One." Even
though Neo's dead, she believes with all her heart that love
is stronger than the physical body. She kisses him, then
demands that he "get up." Neo's eyes flip open, and he's
resurrected. A miracle? Of course. But as Joseph Campbell
states in The Power of Myth, the true hero has to die in order
to be reborn. Once again, Neo has died so he can be
reborn. How? It doesn't matter. Either we believe it or we
don't; it is the willing suspension of disbelief. He has
overcome the limitations of his mind; he has chosen to wear
the mantle of "The One."
The Matrix was one of the first blockbuster films influenced
by sian filmmaking, and it portends a future direction in
movies: technology integrated into a classical, mythical
story line that is larger than life. It's too bad that The Matrix:
Reloaded and The Matrix: Revolutions don't live up to the
quality or creativity of the original.
Thelma & Louise, like Collateral, is a story that deals with
character change and transformation. When the film
begins, Louise is
156 —SCREENPLAY—
finishing up her ι shift at the restaurant where she works.
It is early θ, and she calls Thelma, who is in the
kitchen preparing breakfast. We immediately see who Thelma
is. Her breakfast is a bite out of a frozen candy bar. From our
very first glimpse, Thelma appears to be a little bit ditzy.
Louise asks if she's ready to go for their weekend trip to the
mountains. Thelma replies she hasn't asked her husband
Darryl yet, but when he appears, she hangs up hastily. Our
impression of her husband is that he's a pompous, self-
centered ass. Thelma hesitates to ask him, finally decides not
to, and makes up her mind on the spot to go away with Louise
for the weekend anyway.
After her husband leaves for work, Thelma starts packing,
and, in a beautiful display of film as behavior, we see two
people doing the η thing in totally different ways; we see
who they are by what they do. Here's the way Thelma packs:
She stands in front of her closet, and though she's going
away for only a couple of days, she doesn't know what to
take. So, she takes everything: bathing suits, wool socks,
flannel pajamas, jeans, sweater, T-shirts, a couple of
dresses; she grabs most of her closet and dumps it in her
suitcases. Then she takes a lantern and several pairs of
shoes, and, as an afterthought, grabs a gun by the handle,
holding it like a rat by the tail, and drops it in her purse. What
do we know about her from the way she packs?
Here's the way Louise packs: She puts the suitcase on
the bed; everything is perfectly ordered. She neatly folds, as
the script puts it: "three pairs of underwear, one pair of long
underwear, two pairs of pants, two sweaters, one furry robe,
one nightgown. She could be packing for camp. Her room is
as orderly as the suitcase. As an afterthought, she throws in
an extra pair of socks and closes the suitcase." On the way
out, she calls her boyfriend Jimmy, and when his
answering machine picks up, she angrily turns his picture
facedown. She goes to the sink, rinses the only glass that's
on the counter, wipes it, puts it back in the cupboard, and
leaves in her beautiful T-Bird. Spotless. What do we know
about her character from the way she packs? Film is
behavior.
She picks up Thelma and they drive toward their
weekend retreat. But along the way Thelma begs her to
stop so they can get
— ⊗ POINTS— 157
something to eat. They pull into a bar called, appropriately
enough, the Silver Bullet. That occurs on about page 10 of the
screenplay. We already know who the story is about, as well
as their relationships with the men in their life. We learn they
are on this weekend holiday because Louise wants to prove
a point to her boyfriend Jimmy. A musician, he's been on the
road for three weeks, and has not called her once. She's so
pissed that she's not going to be home when he returns. Let's
see how he likes that!
In an interview I had with writer Callie Khouri for my book
Four Screenplays, she told me, "Jimmy is a guy who's afraid
to make a commitment. She wants to get married, wants all
the conventional things, yet she's being denied them because
of the choice she's made in this man. Basically, his
shortcoming is holding her back from what she really wants.
"I wanted to show her feelings because she feels
responsible for everything that happens. She plays a game
with him; when he comes back from his trip, she's not going
to be in town, and this is what happens when she's not being
honest."
Not being honest in her relationship leads to what
eventually happens. It's not dharmic, meaning it's not the
"right action" based on the moral and ethical principles of the
universe. In other words, it's uncool. Thelma and Louise go
into the bar, order drinks, talk about their relationships.
Then a stranger named Harlan approaches, makes himself
comfortable at their table, and starts hustling Thelma. Louise
shoos him away, but ε he comes back and he and
Thelma step onto the dance floor. He plies her with drinks,
gets her so dizzy she thinks she's going to be sick, then takes
her outside to the parking lot.
And there, what starts as a "friendly" little kiss turns into a
pretty ugly ⊕. He attempts to rape Thelma, and almost
gets away with it. After slapping her around, he flips up her
dress, knocks her legs apart, unzips his pants. We hear the
crunch of gravel, and then a gun enters the frame at his
head. Louise. She tells him to stop, adding, "You've got a
pretty fucked-up idea of fun." He mouths off to her and says
one thing too much, and Louise "raises the gun, and fires a
bullet into his face." He's killed instantly.
⊗ Point I—the true ⊤ of the story; the
"incident,
158 —SCREENPLAY—
episode, or event that hooks into the action and spins it
around in another direction." What began as a nice weekend
trip to the mountains ends up in an attempted rape and
murder. From here on out, Thelma and Louise are on the
run, and as they race down the highway, like so many other
characters in so many other movies, they come to grips with
themselves, find out who they really are, and ultimately end
up taking responsibility for their lives and actions. Thelma &
Louise is a road movie, yes, ⊮'s really a journey of en-
lightenment and self-discovery.
Their dramatic need has changed now and there is no
turning back as they race toward Mexico a step ahead of the
law. As they drive through Monument Valley in Utah, Louise
stops the car. In the vast and towering silence, she steps out
of the car and drinks in this most memorable sight. She now
knows that this might be her last ι on Earth, at least in
this lifetime. That realization, experienced in total silence, is
⊗ Point II. In the next ⊕, she shares this insight with
Thelma. Thelma thanks her for what she did, because
Harlan was hurting her. The two women are bonded
together in friendship and forgiveness.
It's a beautiful moment. In silence, underneath a blanket of
stars, in a place that exists beyond time, they accept
themselves and their destiny. For the first time, they
understand there may be no way back. The stillness of the
⊕ is the pause before the storm, and the silence works
better and more effectively than words ever could.
This little ⊕ is the ⊗ Point at the end of Act II. It
spins the story line into Act III, the ⊡, because at
this point in the story, we don't know what's going to happen.
Will they get caught or escape safely to Mexico? More
important, will they live or die? From now on, through the rest
of the story line, they resolve their feelings for each other and
take full responsibility for their actions. From here on,
there's no turning back for Thelma and Louise. There are no
options left: It's death or it's death.
It should be noted that a ⊗ Point does not have to be a
dramatic moment, or a major ⊕ or ⊟. A ⊗
Point can be a quiet moment, as in ⊗ Point II in Thelma &
Louise, or an exciting action ⊟, as in ⊗ Point I in
Collateral, or a line of ⊘, as in The Matrix, or a
decision that affects the story line, as in
— ⊗ POINTS — 159
Chinatown. A ⊗ Point is whatever you choose it to be—it
could be a long ⊕ or a short one, a moment of silence
or of action; it simply depends on the script you're writing.
It's the choice of the screenwriter, ⊮ is always an
incident, episode, or event that is dictated by the needs of
the story.
Knowledge and mastery of the ⊗ Point is an essential
requirement of writing a screenplay. As you approach the
120 blank sheets of paper, the ⊗ Points at the end of
each act are the anchoring pins of dramatic action; they hold
everything together. They are the signposts, the goals, the
objectives, the destination points of each act—forged links
in the chain of dramatic action.
The ⊕
RICK:
"Inside both of us, we both know you belong
with Victor. ... If that plane leaves the
ground and you're not with him, you'll regret
it—oh, maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow,
but soon, and for the rest of your life."
ILSA:
"What about us?"
RICK:
"We'll always have Paris. We didn't have it;
we'd lost it before you came to Casablanca.
We got it back last ι. . . . lisa, I'm no
good at being noble, ⊮ doesn' t take
much to see that the problems of three lit-
tle people don't amount to a hill of beans
in this crazy world. . . . Someday you'll un-
derstand that. Here's looking at you, kid."
—Casablanca
Julius and Philip Epstein,
Howard Koch
Casablanca is an extraordinary film experience, one of those
rare and magical moments that reside deep within our
collective film consciousness. What makes it such a great
film? What makes it stand out so vividly in the fabric of our
film experience? Many things, of course, but in own my
personal opinion, Rick is a character who, through his words
and actions, sacrifices his life for the higher good. In The
Hero with a Thousand Faces, Joseph Campbell says the hero
has "to die in order to be reborn." When Casablanca begins,
Rick has been living in the past, harboring the emotional
pain of his lost love affair with lisa. When she reenters his life,
Rick
— THE ⊕— 161
laments, "Of all the lousy gin joints, in all the towns in all the
world, she walks into mine," and we know it's time for him to
deal with, confront, and embrace the past.
What makes Bogart so memorable in this film? I think it's
a combination of two things: his screen persona and the part
itself, which morphs into Bogart's mythological stature. In
their screenplay, Julius and Philip Epstein and Howard Koch
have fashioned a character who is tough and fearless and
possessed of a strong moral center and the proverbial heart
of gold. He's one of the "good guys," and his action at the
end of the film, letting Victor Laszlo (Paul Henreid) and Usa
(Ingrid Bergman) escape to Lisbon to continue their fight
against the Germans, serves a much higher purpose than
would his and lisa's personal love affair. "I'm no good at
being noble," he tells lisa, "⊮ doesn't take much to see
that the problems of three little people don't amount to a hill
of beans in this crazy world."
By his actions, Rick is transformed; he has sacrificed his
own personal love for lisa to aid and benefit the Allies in
defeating the Nazis.
"A hero is someone who has given his or her life to
something bigger than oneself," Joseph Campbell says. If
you look at the template of the classical "hero" throughout
myth and literature, Rick's action elevates him to the stature
of a contemporary hero. "Life consists in action," Aristotle
said, "and its end is a mode of action, not a quality." The
η with Hamlet, or Arjuna in the Bhagavad Gita, or Neo
in The Matrix: characters who have overcome their doubts
and fears, then pushed them aside and acted. It is this action
that elevates them into the realm of "heroic figures."
No matter what's in Rick's heart, it's his quality of
character, his action, that drives the story line forward. The
ancient Indian scriptures call it dharma, or righteous action,
and it thrusts Bogart, in this case, to the level of a heroic
figure. His stature, his personification of the nobility of the
human spirit, stands as a beacon of humanity that crosses
all barriers of time, culture, and language.
Good scenes make good movies. When you think of a
good movie, you remember scenes, not the entire film. Think
of Psycho. What sceInIe do you recall? The shower ⊕, of
course. It's a classic.
162 —SCREENPLAY —
The ⊕ is the single most important element in your
screenplay. It is where something happens—where
something specific happens. It is a particular unit, or cell, of
dramatic (or comédie) action—the place in which you tell
your story.
The way you present your ⊕ on the page ultimately
affects the entire screenplay. A screenplay is a reading
experience before it becomes a movie experience.
The purpose of the ⊕ is twofold: Either it moves the
story forward or it reveals information about the character. If
the ⊕ does not satisfy one, or both, of these two
elements, then it doesn't belong in the screenplay.
A ⊕ can be as long or as short as you want it to be. It
can be an essential story ⊜ (progression), or it can be a
transition, a way to bridge the elements of place and time. It
can be a complicated three-page ⊘ ⊕ or as
simple as a single shot, like a car streaking down the
highway. It can be a complicated flashback ⊕ (or as I like
to call it, a flashpresent ⊕) like the jailbreak ⊕ in The
Shawshank Redemption where Andy Dufrense escapes.
The ⊕ can be anything you want it to be. That's the
beauty of it.
It is the story that determines how long or how short your
⊕ is. There is only one rule to follow: Tell your story. The
scenes will be as long or as short as they need to be; just
trust the story and it will tell you everything you need to
know.
Throughout my many years of teaching, I've noticed that
some people have a tendency to want to make a rule for
everything. If there happens to be eighteen scenes in the first
act of a screenplay or movie, they feel their ⊫ must have
eighteen scenes. I can't tell you how many times I've been
awakened in the ⊦ of the ι by a hysterical writer on
the phone saying, "My pages are too long," or "Act I is thirty-
five pages long," or "My ⊗ Point I happens on page
nineteen"; then I hear labored breathing in my ear, followed by
a plaintive cry: "What do I do?"
I listen and always give them the η answer: "So
what!" So what if your ⊫ is too long; so what if ⊗
Point I occurs on page 19. So what! You can't write a
screenplay following numbers as you would a drugstore
painting. It is the form of the screenplay that's important—
⊤, ⊦, and end—not the numbers
— THE ⊕— 163
on the page. The paradigm is only a guide, not an absolute!
Writing a screenplay that way doesn't work—trust your
story to tell you what you need to know, what scenes you
need to write, or what scenes not to write.
We're going to approach our analysis of the ⊕ from
two different perspectives. First, we're going to explore the
generalities of the ⊕—that is, the form; then we'll
examine the specifics, how you create a ⊕ from the
elements, or components, you have within that ⊕.
First, the form. Two things are necessary in every ⊕—
place and time. They are the two components that hold
things in context. Every ⊕ occurs at a specific place and
at a specific time.
7
Where does your ⊕ take place . In an office? A
car? At the beach? In the mountains? On a crowded city
street? What is the location of the ⊕? Does the ⊕
7
take place inside or outside, interior or exterior . Designate
interior by INT. and exterior by EXT.
The other element is time. What time of the κ or ι
does your ⊕ take place? In the θ? Afternoon? Late
at ι? All you have to do is specify either κ or ι. But
sometimes you may want to be more specific: sunrise, early
θ, late θ, midafternoon, sunset, or dusk. These
distinctions are necessary, because the light is different at
each time of the κ. The delineations allow the director of
photography to set up his or her lights for the ⊕
properly. And that can be a big job. All you need to indicate is
κ or ι.
So the heading of the ⊕ (the slug line) becomes, for
example, INT. LIVING ROOM—ι or EXT. STREET—
κ.
That's the context: place and time. These two
ingredients are what you must know before you start writing
and constructing your ⊕. If you change either place or
time, it becomes a new ⊕. Why? Because each time
you change one of these elements, you have to change the
lighting of the ⊕ and, almost always, the camera
placement, which means the lights, dolly tracks, electrical
equipment, and many other things.
For example, we saw in the first ten pages of Chinatown
that Curly, in Jake's office, is upset because Gittes showed
him that his
164 —SCREENPLAY—
wife was having sex with a stranger. Gittes gives him a drink of
cheap whiskey, then escorts him out of his office into the
reception area.
When they move from Gittes's office into the reception
area, it is a new ⊕. Why? Because they have changed
place, gone from one place, the office, to another place, the
reception area. New ⊕. That requires a new setup of
lights and camera.
Gittes is then called into his associates' office, where we
meet the phony Mrs. Mulwray. The ⊕ in the associates'
office is also a new ⊕, even though it's the η action.
Once again, they have changed the place of the ⊕; one
⊕ takes place inside Gittes's office, another in the
reception area, and another in his associates' office. There's
one line of action—Gittes's being hired by the phony Mrs.
Mulwray—but there are three different scenes that make up
this office ⊟.
If your ⊕ takes place in a house, and you move from
the bedroom to the kitchen to the living room, you have
three individual scenes. Your ⊕ might take place in the
bedroom between a man and a woman. They kiss
passionately, then move to the bed. At the window we see
the light change from ι to κ, then when we cut back to
our couple waking up, it is another, new ⊕. Why? You
have changed the time of your ⊕. That means lights
have to be changed and repositioned. It becomes a new
location.
If your character is driving a car up a mountain road at
ι and you want to show him at different locations, you
must change your scenes accordingly: EXT. MOUNTAIN
ROAD—ι to EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD, FARTHER—
ι.
The physical necessity of changing the position of the
CAMERA (the word CAMERA is always capitalized in the
screenplay) or the physical location requires striking one set
and building another. Each ⊕ requires a change in
CAMERA position and therefore requires a change in the
physical components of the ⊕. That's why movie crews
are so large and the cost of filming a movie has become so
expensive. As the price of labor escalates, the cost per
minute increases and we end up paying more at the box
office. At this writing, it costs $10,000 or more per minute to
film a major movie production. (Independent film is
different, of course.)
— THE ⊕— 165
⊕ changes are essential to your screenplay. The
⊕ is the cell, or kernel, of the action, where it all
happens—where you tell your story in moving pictures.
A ⊕ can be constructed in several different ways,
depending on the type of story you're telling. For many types
of scenes you can build the action in terms of ⊤,
⊦, and end; a character enters the place—restaurant,
school, home—and the ⊕ unfolds in linear time, much
the way a screenplay unfolds. The ⊨ ⊕ in
Chinatown between Gittes and the phony Mrs. Mulwray
starts at the ⊤ and ends at the end. Many times one
might show a snippet of an action at the ⊤, a major
portion of it in the ⊦, and another part of it at the end.
Or you can begin a ⊕, cut away to a flashback, as in
The Bourne Supremacy or Ordinary People, then bring it
back to the present and end it in real time. The ⊕ in
Thelma & Louise where Thelma robs a convenience store is
a good example of this. The ⊕ starts with Thelma racing
out of the convenience store yelling to Louise to "go ... go."
Louise asks what's happening and we cut to a video ⊕ of
Thelma robbing the store; then we pull back and we're in
police headquarters, with the police watching the video; then
we cut back to Louise and Thelma and they're again in
present time, still on the run.
Again, there's no rule—it is your story, so you make the
rules. Sometimes, in certain situations, it's good to lay out
the action line of the ⊕ in terms of ⊤, ⊦,
and end, and then use only portions, or bits and pieces, of
the action line to present the ⊕.
Every ⊕ must reveal one element of necessary story
information to the reader or audience; remember, the
purpose of the ⊕ is to either move the story forward or
to reveal information about the character. Rarely does a
⊕ provide more than one piece of information. Many
times I'll read scenes where the writer includes two,
sometimes three pieces of information, and it's way too
much. It bogs down the ⊚ line and can be confusing.
Generally, there are two kinds of scenes. One is where
something happens visually, like an action ⊕—the
⊨ of The Matrix, for example, or the battle scenes in
Cold Mountain. The other is a ⊘ ⊕ between two or
more characters, as in Casablanca, or
166 —SCREENPLAY—
the famous "slapping" ⊕ in Chinatown, or the various
wonderfully inventive scenes in The Royal Tenenbaums
and Magnolia. Most scenes are a combination. In a ⊘
⊕, there's usually some action going on, and in an
action ⊕, there's usually some ⊘.
Since one page of screenplay equals approximately one
minute of screen time, most ⊘ scenes need be no
longer than two or three pages. That's two or three minutes
of screen time, and believe it or not, that's an enormous
amount of screen time. I had a student once who wrote a
seventeen-page ⊘ ⊕ in a romantic comedy.
Needless to say, it was way, way too long. I made cuts to the
⊕ and it ended up a little over three and a half pages.
This is a general rule, of course, and there are always
exceptions. There are times when a ⊘ ⊕ is
highlighted by strong background action, like the ⊕ in
Collateral where Max drives faster and faster until he crashes
the cab into the street barrier.
Within the body of the ⊕, something specific
happens— your characters move from point A to point B in
terms of emotional growth or reaching a decision; or your
story links point A to point B in terms of the ⊚ line of
action, the ⊗. Your story always moves forward, even if
parts of it are told in flashback, as in The English Patient, The
Bourne Supremacy, Casablanca, Memento, The Hours, and
many other films.
In The Hours, the three stories are interrelated with
flashbacks that move the story forward. All three stories
begin with the main characters waking up in the θ
and end during the λ hours. Basically, it's one κ in
the life of three characters. The entire piece is structured to
include flashbacks as an integral part of the story. The
flashback is a technique used to expand the audience's
comprehension of story, characters, and situation. The
purpose of the flashback is the η as the ⊕—either it
moves the story forward or it reveals information about the
characters.
How do you go about creating a ⊕?
First create the context of the ⊕, then determine the
content, what happens. What is the purpose of the ⊕?
Why is it there? How does it move the story forward? What
happens within the body of the ⊕? Where has the
character just been before he or
— THE ⊕— 167
ie enters the ⊕? What are the emotional forces working
on the character during the ⊕? Do they impact the
purpose of the ⊕?
Sometimes an actor approaches a ⊕ by finding out
what he's doing there—his purpose—then where he's
coming from, and then where he's going after the ⊕
concludes. What is his/her purpose in the ⊕? Why is
he/she there? To move the story forward or to reveal
information about the character?
As writer, it's your responsibility to know why your
characters are in a ⊕, what the purpose of the ⊕ is,
and how the characters' actions, or ⊘, are relevant to
the story. You've got to know what happens to your
characters in the scenes, as well as what happens to them in
between the scenes: What happened during the time
between the office Monday afternoon and the next ⊕,
Thursday ι at dinner? If you don't know, who does?
By creating context, you determine dramatic purpose
and can build your ⊕ line by line, action by action. By
creating context, you establish content.
How do you do this?
By finding the components or elements within the ⊕.
What aspect of your character's professional life, personal
life, or private life is going to be revealed?
Let's go back to the story of three people stealing moon
rocks from NASA's Houston complex. We need to write a
⊕ showing our characters committing to the caper. Up
to this point, they've only talked about it. Now they decide to
do it. That's the context. Next, content.
Where does the ⊕ take place?
At home? In a bar? Inside a car? Walking in the park?
Maybe a quiet location, like a rented van on the highway?
That might work, but maybe there's a more visual approach
we can take—this is, after all, a movie.
Actors often play "against the grain" of a ⊕; that is,
they approach the ⊕ not from the obvious approach but
from the unobvious approach. For example, they'll play an
"angry" ⊕ smiling softly, hiding their rage or anger
beneath a façade of nice-ness. Brando was a master at this.
When you're approaching a ⊕, look for a way that
dramatizes
168 —SCREENPLAY —
the ⊕ "against the grain" or a location that could make it
visually interesting. In Silver Streak, Colin Higgins wrote a
love ⊕ between Jill Clayburgh and Gene Wilder in which
they talk about flowers! It's beautiful. Orson Welles, in The
Lady from Shanghai, plays a love ⊕ with Rita Hayworth
in an aquarium, in front of sharks and barracudas.
In our moon rock story, instead of setting the "decision"
⊕ in a quiet location like the van, suppose we wrote it in
a crowded pool hall, at ι. We could introduce an element
of suspense into the ⊕ as well; as our characters shoot
pool and discuss the decision of pulling the job, suppose an
off-duty security cop enters and starts wandering around,
adding a touch of dramatic tension. (Hitchcock did this kind
of thing all the time.) We might open with a shot of the eight
ball, then pull back to reveal our characters leaning over
the table, talking about the job.
Suppose we wanted to write a ⊕ establishing the
disintegrating emotional connections in a family. How could
we do it?
First, establish the purpose of the ⊕. In this case we
want to show the relationship of the family, how its members
relate to themselves and each other. Second, where does the
⊕ takes place, and when, either κ or ι. It could take
place anywhere: in a car, on a walk, in a movie theater, in the
family dining room.
In American Beauty there's a great ⊕ illuminating the
dysfunctional aspects of Lester and his family. Lester, his wife,
Carolyn, and their daughter, Jane, are having dinner
together after a κ we've observed. Screenwriter Alan Ball
sets the ⊕ in the dining room, a place that looks
beautiful: low lighting, a marvelously set table, candles
burning, a romantic version of "You Are Too Beautiful"
playing in the background, vibrant roses on the table. In
short, everything "looks" great; at least, on the outside. It
could be a ⊕ from a Norman Rockwell painting. That's
the context.
What's the purpose of the ⊕? To show the family
dynamic. So while everything looks great on the outside,
what's going on inside? First, Jane complains about the
music: "Mom, do we have to listen to this elevator music?"
To which Carolyn replies, "No. As soon as you've prepared
a nutritious yet flavorful meal that I'm about to eat, you can
listen to whatever you like." Lester inquires
— THE ⊕— 169
about Jane's κ at school, to which she replies: "It was
okay." "Just okay?" Lester asks. She looks at her parents,
then sarcastically says: "It was spec-tac-ular." Lester
complains about his job, then whines that Jane doesn't even
listen to him anymore. She replies, "You've barely even
spoken to me for months." And she gets up and leaves the
table. Carolyn looks at Lester critically, and he mumbles:
"What,
you're Mother of the Year? You treat her like an employee
___________________________________________ You
treat us both like employees." And he abruptly leaves the
table and tries to mend things with Jane in the kitchen,
leaving Carolyn sitting alone in this beautiful space,
listening to the haunting musical refrains of John Coltrane
and Johnny Hartman: "You are too beautiful..."
It's an extraordinary ⊕! It shows us the outside as well
as the inside. Inside, we see a totally dysfunctional family.
The characters are illuminated by their contained
dissatisfaction, with themselves as well as each other. It
says so much with so little. It is a perfect illustration of setting
up the context and revealing the dysfunctional aspects of the
family through the content.
When you're preparing to write a ⊕, first establish the pur-
pose, then find the components, the elements contained within
the ⊕. Then determine the content. Suppose you wanted to
set a ⊕ in a restaurant. What components could you
effectively use? Possibly the waiter has a cold, or is starting to
come down with one; or maybe he or she is overworked, has too
many stations to cover; maybe he had a disagreement with his
significant other just before he came to work; or maybe a couple at a
nearby table is having an argument that begins in a subdued
fashion, but soon esca-t lates and intrudes on the characters in
your ⊕. Let something happen that could possibly impact the
characters. Look for any ingredients you might use that could
generate some form of ⊖, either inside the characters or within
the restaurant itself. The content of the ⊕ now becomes part of
the context. This allows you to stay on top of your story, and not let
the story be on top of you. As a writer, you must exercise choice and
responsibility in the creative decisions you make and in the
construction and presentation of your ⊕. After all, it's the
character's choice within the ⊚ that determines the flow of
the story line.
170 —SCREENPLAY —
Within the context of the ⊕ you can influence tone,
feeling, and mood by the descriptions you write. In Collateral,
screenwriter Stuart Beattie sets up Los Angeles in short,
choppy strokes: "Shades of yellow. Ribbons of silver.
Shimmers of chrome. Headlights sweeping past, flaring to
white. Brake lights flashing, halating red. Reflections of
overhead fluorescence flowing like liquid along the
windshields of glass ..." The style, the descriptions of the city
portray a heightened sense of filmic reality, something we
can see, a feeling experienced, the pounding pulsations of
the city at ι. And ⊯ Mann, the director, brilliantly
brings it to life.
In Collateral, the ⊗ Point at the end of Act II is an
action-charged ⊕ where Vincent shatters Max's dream
during a wild taxi ride after the chaotic shoot-out at the
Korean nightclub. It's a great example of how ⊘ can
reveal character as well as amp up the tension within a
⊕. The ⊕ begins after Vincent "rescues" Max from
the LAPD detective, Fanning (Mark Ruffalo). Vincent yanks
Max back into the cab and they take off, heading downtown.
EXT. AERIAL SHOT: LOS ANGELES CITYSCAPE-ι
STRAIGHT DOWN from above. Acid-mint streetlight
in pools on Olympic Blvd. The yellow cab is the
only vehicle heading east. Everything else
streams west. Emergency vehicles. Flashers.
INT. MAX'S CAB-MAX
In shock. Back in purgatory . . . eternally in his
cab's front seat. As the lone yellow cab drives
east . . .
VINCENT
What a clusterfuck. Only thing didn't
show was the Polish cavalry.
Max's life, controlled by Vincent, is a ι-
mare, perpetual and eternal. Now Vincent realizes
he's getting the silent treatment.
(Continued)
— THE ⊕— 171
VINCENT
You're alive. I saved you. We're
BREATHING. Do I get any thanks? No.
All you can do is clam up. You don't
wanna talk, tell me to fuck off . . .
MAX
(inaudible) .
. . fuck off.
Vincent's attention goes to the window, out which
are streams of emergency vehicles . . . looks to the
airspace, filled with LAPD and news helicopters.
EXT. STREET-THE ANONYMOUS YELLOW CAB
heads east. All other traffic races to the debacle
left behind . . .
VINCENT (O.S.)
Okay.
(⊜)
. . . blood, bodily fluid and death get
to you?
Try deep breathing. Or remember, we
all die anyway . . .
MAX (O.S.)
You had to kill Fanning?
VINCENT (O.S.)
Who the fuck is Fanning?
INT. CAB
MAX
That cop!
(⊜)
Why'd you have to do that? You coulda
wounded him. Maybe he had a family,
parents,kids who gotta grow up without a
dad, he believed me, he was a good guy .
. .
VINCENT
I shoulda saved him 'cause he believed
you ... ?
172 —SCREENPLAY-
No, MAX not just
that.
Yeah VINCENT , that . . .
Yeah MAX
, so, what's wrong with that?
It's VINCENT what I do for a
living . . .
Some MAX living.
Head VINCENT downtown.
What MAX 's downtown?
How VINCENT are you at math? I was
five hired for hits. I did four.
One MAX (grim) more .
VINCENT
There you go ... !
Whyn MAX 't you kill me and find
cab? another
VINCENT 'Cause you're
good. And we're in this together. You
know. . . (⊜) . . . fates intertwined.
Cosmic coincidence. All that crap. . .
You' MAX re full of
shit.
I'm VINCENT full of
shit?
— THE ⊕— 173
(⊜)
VINCENT (CONT'D)
You're a monument of it. You even
bullshitted yourself, all I am is taking
out the garbage. Killing bad people . . .
(Continued)
MAX 'Cause
that's what you said. . .
VINCENT
And you believed me ... ?
MAX
What'd they do?
VINCENT
How do I know?
(⊜)
But, they all got that "witness
for the prosecution" look to me.
It's probably some major federal
indictment against somebody who
majorly does not want to get in-
dicted ... I dunno.
MAX
That's the reason?
VINCENT That's the
"why." There is no reason.
(⊜)
No good reason; no bad reason. To live
or to die.
MAX
Then what are you?
VINCENT (looks up) . . .
indifferent.
Vincent looks out the window.
174 —SCREENPLAY-
VINCENT (CONT'D)
C'mon, man. Get with it. Millions of
galaxies of hundreds of millions of
stars and a speck on one. In a blink. .
.that's us. Lost in space. The universe
don't care about you. The cop, you, me?
(⊜)
Who notices?
MAX
How much they pay you? They pay you a
lot?
VINCENT
Yeah.
MAX What
do you do afterwards?
VINCENT
After what?
MAX
When enough's enough. When you got
enough money. What do you do then?
VINCENT
Make that light.
MAX
You got a plan? You got like an
exit strategy, don't you?
Vincent has no game plan. There is no objective
towards which his life is moving. He is a subject
in meaningless motion.
MAX (CONT'D)
Or you doin' the η thing again and
again, pointlessly. 'Cause you're
damaged goods? When you wake up in the
θ? Open your eyes in the a.m., is
there anybody there? Anybody home?
— THE ⊕— 175
VINCENT
No, I just put on a happy face and
go on with my κ.
MAX
'Cause I think you are low. I think you
are really low, my brother, and some
standard parts that are supposed to be
there in people . . .with you, aren't. So
what happened to you, man? And why
haven't you killed me?
VINCENT
Of all the cabbies in LA, I pull Max.
Sigmund Freud meets Dr. Ruth . . .
MAX
Answer the question.
VINCENT
Look in the mirror
(on the attack)
. . . with your paper towels ... a clean
cab. . . your own limo company someday.
How much you got saved?
MAX
None of your business.
VINCENT
Someday? "Someday my dream will
come . . . ?"
(⊜)
But one ι you will wake up and
discover it all turned around on you.
Suddenly you are old. And it didn't
happen. It never will. 'Cause you were
never going to do it, anyway. The dream
became yesterday and got lost. Then
you'll bullshit yourself, it could never
have been. And you'll push it into memory
. . . and zone out in a Barcalounger with
daytime TV on for the rest of your life .
. .
(⊜)
176 —SCREENPLAY-
VINCENT (CONT'D)
Don't talk to me about murder. You're
killing yourself in this cab. Bit by
bit. Every κ.
Max is soaking up every word.
VINCENT (CONT'D)
AH it ever took was a down payment. On
a Lincoln Town Car. What the hell are
you still doing in a cab? Or that girl.
You can't even call that girl [referring
to Annie—Jada Pinkett Smith—whom Max met
in the ⊤ of the story].
The needle on the speedometer is creeping past
forty . . .
MAX
'Cause I never straightened up and
looked at it, you know ... ?
VINCENT
Slow down.
MAX
(ignoring him)
. . .myself, I should have. My
brothers did . . .
(⊜)
Tried to gamble my way out from under.
Another born-to-lose deal 1 Then, "It's
gotta be perfect to go!" You know? Risk
all torqued-down. I coulda done it anytime
. . .
Needle pushing sixty . . .
VINCENT
Red light.
— THE ⊕—
177
MAX
But you know what? It doesn't matter.
What's it matter, anyway? 'Cause we are .
. . insignificant out here in this big-ass
nowhere. Twilight Zone shit. Says the
badass sociopath in my backseat. So
that's one thing I got to thank you for,
bro. . . Until now, I never saw it that way
. . .
The cab goes blasting through an intersection on
a red light. A LOS ANGELES TIMES DELIVERY TRUCK
SLAMS ON ITS BRAKES as Max swerves, barely avoid-
ing a collision.
VINCENT
That was a red light!
Max glances in the rearview.
MAX
. . .not until now. So what's it all
matter? It don't. So, fuck it. Fix it.
Nothing to lose. Right?
Vincent's H+K's aimed at Max's head. Max almost
laughs.
VINCENT
Slow the hell down!
MAX
Why? What are you gonna do? Pull the
trigger? Kill us? Go ahead, man! Shoot . .
. my ass.
VINCENT
Slow down!
MAX
Vincent?
Their eyes meet in the rearview mirror. Vincent
is arrested by a look in Max that he's not seen
before. It's the even, confrontational look of a
man with nothing to lose.
178 —SCREENPLAY-
MAX (CONT'D)
Go fuck yourself.
Max slams on the brakes and cranks the steering
wheel hard right . . .
EXT. STREET-RIGHT WHEEL
hits a low divider . . . rear end comes unstuck,
rotating over the front right and flipping the cab
into a violent roll onto its roof, spinning down
the street, SMASHING off other cars, pieces
falling off, spewing glass . . . and then settling
upside down, revolving slowly to a creaking stop,
anti-freeze spilling across the pavement.
And then everything goes silent, motionless,
still.
And then we're into the aftermath. Wow! A virtual assault
of words—explosive, fast, visually dynamic, and emotionally
insightful; the ⊘ is crisp, sharp, and carries us like
lightning across the page. More than anything, it's an
epiphany for Max. It's a grabber, in more ways than one.
The ⊕ starts in the aftermath of the shoot-out at the
Korean nightclub. It begins surrounded in tension, like an
echo of the chaotic shoot-out that preceded it. The strain
inside the cab gradually picks up as the car increases speed
and Max and Vincent go after each other. Max's choices are
few if he hopes to walk away from this nightmare alive.
First, not only is it exciting, filled with friction and
suspense, ⊮ illustrates the true purpose of a ⊕: It
moves the story forward as well as revealing information about
the main character. It does this both physically and
emotionally. During the ⊕, as Max and Vincent race
toward downtown, layer after layer of character is stripped
away to reveal their personal histories and divergent points of
view. According to Vincent, we are insignificant here, a tiny
speck in the galactic expanse of space. Basically, life is
meaningless, with no design, no purpose. The ⊕ is the
⊗ Point at the end of
— THE ⊕— 179
Act II and leads us into Act III, the ⊡. After the car
crashes, the only question that remains is simple: Can Max
walk away alive, and can he stop Vincent from fulfilling his
fifth hit, who, he now learns, is Annie?
The ⊕ reveals character, as Vincent probes and bursts
Max's dream balloon. Up until now, as Vincent says, Max
has lived in a dream, in a "someday" state; someday he's
going to fulfill his dream of starting Island Limousine;
someday he's going to meet the woman of his dreams;
someday he'll have it all and be fulfilled as a person. It's a
pretty big Someday. Vincent shows him that there is only
now, today, this present moment, this point in time. Waiting
for "someday" is, like striving for perfection, really just an
excuse. "Someday" is a concept that, to quote my mentor,
Jean Renoir, "exists only in the mind, not in reality."
What forces are working on these two characters as they
engage in their personal duel? In the nightclub, the hit
man, against all odds, has completed his fourth hit, and
now Max is driving him toward number five. Once again,
Max is virtually a prisoner, his choices few; either he finds
some way to escape safely, Vincent kills him after the final hit
is completed, or he manages to kill Vincent.
You'll notice that this ⊕ is not a simply just another
⊘ ⊕; Max and Vincent are in a speeding taxi,
escaping from the frenetic shoot-out at the Korean
nightclub. So there is an outside, external tension—the
police, other cars, helicopters, traffic lights—that impedes
their action and becomes a source of ⊖, adding tension
to the harsh verbal exchange between Max and Vincent.
There's another thing that's revealed in this ⊕. In the
⊤, Max was portrayed as something of a wimp, a
man afraid to stand up to his boss, the cab dispatcher, a
man who lives a "someday" dream pictured in a postcard.
But he has been transformed, and finally stands up to and
confronts his nemesis.
This does not happen spontaneously but has been
gradually built up to, step by step, from the ⊤ of the
screenplay. It is Vincent who stands up to the dispatcher
when he gives Max a bad time, and shows Max how to
defend himself against his superior. Max gathers enough
strength to throw Vincent's briefcase onto the
M
180 —SCREENPLAY —
freeway, ruining it. Then he's forced to confront the drug
warlord, Felix, and walks out alive. Though some might say
that these elements are too unbelievable to be taken
seriously, to my mind, they work effectively. Now, prompted
by Vincent's prodding, Max has found enough courage to flip
the cab, possibly killing himself and Vincent but at least
stopping Vincent from completing his last hit of the λ.
In short, this ⊕, set amid the fury and confusion of
the speeding cab, allows us to watch Max's transformation
and ultimately leads to the ⊩ of the film. Max has
completed his ⊠.
It's a marvelous ⊕.
Do these η principles work with comedy? Comedy
creates a situation, then lets people act and react to the
situation and each other. In comedy, you can't have your
characters playing for laughs; they have to believe what
they're doing, otherwise it becomes forced and contrived, and
therefore unfunny.
Remember the ⊕ at the outdoor restaurant in Annie
7
Hall . Annie (Diane Keaton) tells Alvy (Woody Allen) that she
just wants to be his "friend" and not continue their romantic
relationship. Both are uncomfortable, and this adds tension
to the ⊕ by heightening the comédie overtones; when
he leaves the restaurant he collides with several cars, then
tears up his driver's license in front of a policeman. Woody
Allen utilizes the situation for maximum dramatic
effectiveness.
In the Italian film Divorce—Italian Style, a classic comedy
with Marcello Mastroianni, only a thin line separates
comedy from tragedy. But, after all, comedy and tragedy are
two sides of the η coin. Mastroianni is married to a
woman who makes enormous sexual demands on him, and
he can't cope with it—especially when he meets a
voluptuous young cousin who's crazy about him. He wants
a divorce but, alas, the Church won't recognize it. What's an
Italian man to do? The only way the Church will recognize
the end of his marriage is for his wife to die. But she's as
healthy as a horse.
So he decides to kill her. But under Italian law, the only
way he can kill her with honor and get away with it is if she's
unfaithful; he has to be cuckolded. So he sets out to find a
lover for his wife.
— THE ⊕— 181
That's the situation!
After many, many funny moments, she is unfaithful to
him, and his Italian honor demands he take action. He
tracks her and her lover to an island in the Aegean Sea and
searches for them, gun in hand.
The characters are caught within the web of
circumstances and play their roles with exaggerated
seriousness, and the result is film comedy at its best. For in
comedy, Woody Allen says, "Acting funny is the worst thing
you can do."
Comedy, like drama, depends on "real people in real
situations."
When you set out to write a ⊕, find the purpose of the
⊕ and root it in place and time. Then establish the
context and determine the content, and find the elements or
components within the ⊕ to build it and make it work.
Every ⊕, like a ⊟, or an act, or an entire
screenplay, has a definite ⊤, ⊦, and end. If
you break the components of the ⊕ down into
⊤, ⊦, and end, you can establish the bits and
pieces of action that are visually effective. In Collateral, we
saw the entire ⊕: the ⊤, when Max and Vincent
head downtown; the ⊦, when they exchange
conversation; and the end, when Max steps on the gas
and flips the car.
You don't always need to show the entire ⊕. You can
choose to show a few parts from the ⊤, or just the
⊦, or maybe only the end. Only rarely is a ⊕
depicted in its entirety. William Goldman, who wrote Butch
Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and All the President's Men,
among other films, once remarked that he doesn't enter the
action until the last possible moment—that is, just before the
purpose of the ⊕ is revealed.
You, as writer, are completely in control of how you create
your scenes to move your story forward. You choose what
part of the ⊕ you are going to show.
Create a ⊕ by creating a context, then establish the
content. Find the purpose of the ⊕, then choose the
place and time for the
182 -SCREENPLAY —
⊕. Find the components or elements within the ⊕ to
create inner or outer ⊖ to generate drama. Drama,
remember, is ⊖; seek it out.
Your story always moves forward, step by step, ⊕ by
⊕, toward the ⊡. Once you know what you're
doing, you're ready for the next step—writing the ⊟.
"Form follows structure; structure doesn't
follow form."
-I. M. Pei
Architect
"Synergy" is the study of systems, the behavior of systems
as a whole, independent of their working parts. R.
Buckminster Fuller, the noted scientist and humanitarian,
creator of the geodesic dome, stresses the concept of
synergy as the relationship between the whole and its parts;
that is, a system.
The screenplay is comprised of a series of elements that
can be compared to a system, a number of individually
related parts arranged to form a unity, or whole: The solar
system is composed of planets orbiting the sun; the
circulatory system works in conjunction with all the organs of
the body; a stereo system, either analog or digital, is made up
of amplifier, preamp, tuner, CD/DVD player, cassette player,
speakers, turntable, cartridge, needle, and/or other
technology. Put together, arranged in a particular way, the
system works as a whole; we don't measure the individual
components of the stereo system, we measure the system in
terms of "sound," "quality," and "performance."
A screenplay is really a system of sorts, comprised of
specific parts that are related and unified by action,
character, and dramatic premise. We measure it, or evaluate
it, in terms of how well it works or doesn't work.
The screenplay, as a system, is made up of specific
elements: endings, beginnings, scenes, ⊗ Points, shots,
special effects, locations, music, and sequences. Together,
unified by the dramatic thrust of
184 —SCREENPLAY—
action and character, the story elements are arranged in a
particular way and then revealed visually to create the
totality known as the screenplay.
As far as I'm concerned, the ⊟ is perhaps the most
important element of the screenplay. A ⊟ is a series of
scenes connected by one single idea with a definite ⊤,
⊦, and end. It is a unit, or block, of dramatic action unified
by one single idea. It is the skeleton, or backbone, of your
script and, like the nature of structure itself, holds everything
together.
7
Remember the War Admiral race ⊟ in Seabiscuit .
It's a lengthy ⊟, leading up to the match race
between War Admiral and Seabiscuit. It's really a ⊟
within a ⊟. It begins with the agreement by the
owner of War Admiral, Samuel Riddle, to race his champion
Thoroughbred against Seabiscuit. The Seabiscuit team
journeys across the country, then arrives at Pimlico and
watches War Admiral work out. The group is so impressed
with his size and speed that they know Seabiscuit needs "an
edge." That's the ⊤ of the ⊟.
The ⊦—the team members train Seabiscuit at ι,
away from the frenzy of media attention; they "borrow" a fire
bell and familiarize the horse with breaking from the start at
the sound of the bell. Shortly before the race is set to begin,
Red (Tobey Maguire), the jockey, breaks his leg while doing
a favor for an old friend, and another rider has to be found.
Seabiscuit trains some more and Red, in the hospital,
coaches George Woolf, the new rider, on Seabiscuit's racing
quirks.
The end of this section is really a ⊟ within the
⊟. It is the race itself, which is broken down into
⊤, ⊦, and end.
We could call it "The Race." The ⊤ of the race
⊟ is the κ of the race; the fans arrive, and
excitement runs high as the infield fills up. We cut to the
locker room as the team, Tom Smith (Chris Cooper), jockey
George Woolf (real-life jockey Gary Stevens), and Charles
Howard (Jeff Bridges) prepare for this incredible race and
discuss their last-minute preparations.
The ⊦ is the actual race itself: The horses are led to
the starting line, settle down, and the bell sounds. The race
begins and
— THE ⊟— 185
we see how focused the national attention has become on
these two horses running around the track: "The race was
broadcast on NBC and businesses around America
scheduled a half κ of work so their employees could hear
the call...," the narrator tells us in ⊞-over. Writer-director
Gary Ross even cuts away to stills of the people of
Depression America huddled together, listening to their
radios. That's how important this race was to the people of
the Depression. It's even said that President Franklin D.
Roosevelt stopped doing the business of the country to tune
in to the race.
The race itself is a dazzling display of cinematic style and
suspense. Back and forth we go, the two horses head-to-
head. Then Seabiscuit kicks into another gear and leaves
the larger horse behind, and wins by more than five lengths.
Joy abounds as people embrace, yelling and screaming. Red
listens from his hospital bed as the ⊟ ends with
Seabiscuit in the Winner's Circle, surrounded by the owners
and media.
It's an incredible ⊟, and you can see that it has a
definite ⊤, ⊦, and end. The race ⊟ itself
also has a ⊤, ⊦, and end. That's the value of a
well-constructed ⊟. It moves the story forward while
revealing information about the characters.
A ⊟ is a series of scenes connected by one single
idea, usually expressed in a word or two: a wedding, a
funeral; a chase; a race; an election; a reunion; an arrival or
departure; a coronation; a bank holdup. The context of the
⊟ is the specific idea that can be expressed in a few
words or less. The race between Seabiscuit and War Admiral,
for example, is a unit, or block, of dramatic action; it is the
context, the idea that holds the content in place, like an
empty coffee cup holds coffee, tea, water, milk, juice, or
whatever. Once we establish the context of the ⊟, we
build it with content, the specific details, or ingredients,
needed to create the ⊟.
The ⊟ is a key part of the screenplay because it
holds essential parts of the ⊚ action in place, much like
a strand holds a diamond necklace in place. You can literally
string or hang a series of scenes together to create chunks of
dramatic action.
Remember the wedding ⊟ that opened The
7
Godfather .
186 —SCREENPLAY—
The final action ⊟ in Collateral as Vincent hunts
Annie and Max tries to save her? The ⊨ battle
⊟ in Cold Mountain, integrating two distinct time
periods, time present and time past? The real estate
⊟ in American Beauty where Carolyn is determined
that "I will sell this house today"? The ⊨ ⊟ of
The Royal Tenenbaums where we are introduced to the
family? Or the final battle ⊟ from Lord of the Rings:
The Return of the King?
Remember The Matrix when Neo and Trinity rescue
Morpheus? They arrive in the lobby of the building where he's
being held, blast their way inside, and run up to the floor
where Agent Smith is holding Morpheus. They fight their way
in, rescue Morpheus, then fight their way out and make their
escape. ⊤, ⊦, and end, all designated and held
in place by one word—"rescue."
It's an important concept to understand in the writing of
a screenplay. It is the organizational framework, the form, the
foundation, one of the major building blocks of the
screenplay.
The contemporary screenplay, as practiced by such
modern screenwriters as Alan Ball, Richard LaGravenese,
Wes Anderson, Robert Towne, Steven Kloves, Frank
Darabont, Ron Bass, James Cameron, Gary Ross, Stuart
Beattie, to name just a few, might be defined as a series of
sequences tied together, or connected, by the dramatic story
line. Stanley Kubrick's epic Barry Lyndon is a series of se-
quences; so is James Cameron's Terminator 2: Judgment
κ and Steven Spielberg's Close Encounters of the Third
Kind.
Why is the ⊟ so important?
Look at the paradigm:
Act III
Confrontation ⊡
As already discussed, when you begin writing your
screenplay, you need to know four things: the ⊨, the
⊗ Pointât the end
— THE ⊟— 187
of Act I, the ⊗ Point at the end of Act II, and the ⊥.
When you know what those four elements are, and have
done the necessary preparation on action and character,
then you're ready to start writing.
Sometimes, but not always, these four story points are
sequences. You might open your film with a wedding
⊟, as in The Godfather. You might use a ⊟
like Neo meeting Morpheus and choosing the Red Pill in The
Matrix as the ⊗ Point at the end of Act I. You might want to
write a ⊟ like Paul Thomas Anderson does in
Magnolia, when nine characters, all in states of deep
emotional stress, sing the lyrics of Aimee Mann's song "Wise
Up." It's a wonderful illustration of how inventive a ⊟
can be. You might use a dramatic ⊟ to end the film,
like Gary Ross does in Seabiscuit, or resolve your script with
the performance of a play, like Wes Anderson and Owen
Wilson do in Rushmore.
Sequences can be written any way you want; they are a
creative, limitless context within which to paint your picture
against the canvas of action. It should be noted that there are
no specific number of sequences in a screenplay; you don't
need exactly twelve, eighteen, or twenty sequences to make
up your script. Your story will tell you how many sequences
you need. Frank Pierson conceived and wrote Dog κ
Afternoon with just twelve sequences. He started off with four:
the ⊨, the two ⊗ Points at the end of Acts I and II, and
the ⊥. He added eight sequences throughout the
⊚ line and built that into a complete screenplay.
Think about it!
You can have as many or as few sequences as you want.
There's no rule about the number you need. All you need to
know is the idea behind the ⊟, the context; and then
you can create a series of scenes, the content.
Most action films are held together by a series of
sequences that keep the story moving forward. The action
genre is a significant staple of our film fare, and if you look at
any film company's production schedules for the upcoming
year, you'll see at least half of its production slate is devoted
to the action film.
Writing the action film, and the action ⊟, is really
an art unto itself. So many times I read screenplays whose
pages are filled
188 —SCREENPLAY —
with nonstop action—in fact, there is so much action, with
little or no characterization, that it becomes dull and
repetitive. The reader and viewer become overwhelmed and
numb from the onslaught of words and pictures. Sometimes
you can have a good action script with strong individual
action sequences, but the premise is weak and derivative of
earlier films. It needs a "new look," or a more interesting
concept.
Why? Because there are problems: with the ⊗, or the
characters, or the action itself. Some writers have a natural
ability to write action, and others are more comfortable
writing character. It's important to note that before you can
write any kind of action film, or action ⊟, you must
understand what the action film is, what its essential nature
is. Once I had a student who wrote a screenplay about a
navy pilot sent on a mission to a foreign country to rescue a
kidnapped scientist being held hostage. It's a good premise,
and there are several opportunities to create notable action
sequences that keep the story moving forward at a fast
pace. That's what he did, and his entire screenplay was one
action ⊟ after another; the story moved like
lightning, ⊮ didn't work at all. Why? Because he didn't
create an interesting main character. And because he didn't
know his main character, most of the ⊘ consisted of
expository elements designed to keep the story moving
forward. It didn't work. We didn't know anything about this
person sent to rescue the scientist, who he was or where he
came from; we had no idea about his thoughts or feelings, or
the forces working on his life.
This is not all that uncommon. When you're writing an
action screenplay, like The Bourne Supremacy or Collateral,
the focus must be on action and character; the two must
reside in and interact with each other. Otherwise there are
going to be problems. What usually happens is that the
action overpowers the story and diminishes the characters,
resulting in a screenplay that, no matter how well written, is
flat and uninteresting. There has to be an appropriate
balance of peaks and valleys, places in the material where
the reader and audience can pause and catch their collective
breath.
Writing an action ⊟ is a definite skill, and good
action
— THE ⊟— 189
scripts are written with color, pacing, suspense, tension,
and, in most cases, humor. The interchanges between Max
and Vincent in Collateral were often humorous as well as
insightful. Remember Bruce Willis's character mumbling to
himself in Die Hard (Jeb Stuart and Steven de Souza) or the
bus making that leap across the enormous freeway chasm in
Speed (Graham Yost)? We remember good action films like
Jurassic Park (David Koepp) or The Fugitive (David Twohy
and Jeb Stuart) or The Hunt for Red October (Larry Ferguson
and Donald Stewart) by the uniqueness of their action and
the characters who take part in that action. But we usually
forget all the cool car chases and explosions that occupy the
majority of action films that fill our theaters. They all look
alike.
The key to writing any action film lies in writing the action
⊟. In an action film like Terminator 2: Judgment κ
(James Cameron and William Wisher), one of the most
influential films of the '90s, everything is structured and
anchored around six major action sequences. After the
introduction of the Terminator, the T-1000, and John and
Sarah, the first major ⊟ is where young John
Connor is rescued by the Terminator; the second is when
the Terminator and John break his mother out of prison; the
third, the "rest period" at Enrique's gas station where they
load up with weapons; the fourth, Sarah's attempt to kill Miles
Dyson, creator of the microchip that makes the future Age of
Machines possible; the fifth, the siege at Cyberdyne Systems;
and the sixth ⊟ is their breakout and chase, winding
up in the steel factory. The entire third act is literally one long
nonstop action ⊟.
These six key sequences hold (the function of the
structure) the entire story together, but within this structural
framework James Cameron and William Wisher have
created a dynamic and intriguing premise, as well as some
interesting characters. That, along with the special effects,
makes this a truly memorable action film. And let's not forget
the "rest period" at the abandoned gas station so we can
"breathe" and learn more about the characters. Then we're
off and running again.
What makes a good action film great? The electricity of
the action sequences. Remember the chase scenes from
Bullitt and The
190 —SCREENPLAY —
French Connection? Or the start of the cattle drive in
Howard Hawks's Red River? Or "the walk" at the end of The
Wild Bunch? Or the last ⊟ of The Matrix? Or Butch
and Sundance jumping into the river gorge after being
relentlessly chased by the Super Posse in Butch Cassidy and
the Sundance Kid? The list goes on and on.
The key to writing a great action ⊟ is the way it's
designed. A ⊟, remember, is a series of scenes
connected by one single idea, with a definite ⊤, ⊦,
and end. As mentioned, a ⊟ is a complete entity, held
together by one single idea: a chase ⊟, wedding
⊟, party ⊟, fight ⊟, love ⊟,
storm ⊟.
What's nice about designing a ⊟ is that you can
play with many different elements to make it catchy, exciting,
dynamic. One of the things I like the most about Sam
Peckinpah as a filmmaker is the way he designs his
sequences in what I call "the contradiction of image." Things
we don't expect begin to play upon and affect the central
core of action. One of my favorite examples is the ⊨
⊟ of The Wild Bunch. It can be described simply: a
holdup, or bank robbery. That's the context.
The script opens with the outlaws, led by Pike Bishop
(William Holden), wearing soldier uniforms and riding into a
small town. They pass a group of kids setting fire to a
scorpion, a little visual aside about what's to come.
When the Wild Bunch rides into town, they pass a
preacher standing underneath a tent, denouncing the evils
of alcohol in an abbreviated Leviticus 10:9: "Do not drink
wine or strong drink ... least ye die... it biteth itself like a
serpent and stingeth like an adder." In almost every
Peckinpah film, there is some kind of reference to the evils of
alcohol. But of course, he never just throws in a ⊕ like
this; he includes it as an integral part of the action that
erupts once the Temperance Parade begins.
The stage description sets up Pike's character
immediately.
Pike is a thoughtful, self-educated top gun with a penchant
for violence who is afraid of nothing—except the changes in
himself and those around him. Make no mistake, Pike Bishop
is not a hero—his
— THE ⊟— 191
values are not ours—he is a gunfighter, a criminal, a bank
robber, a killer of men. His sympathies are not for fences, for
trolleys and telegraphs or better schools. He lives outside and
against society because he believes in that way of life
Pike's character reveals his sympathetic side immediately;
as the group prepares to enter the bank, he inadvertently
bumps into a little old lady and knocks her parcels to the
ground. Everybody freezes, but with the decorum of a
gentleman, Pike picks up the packages, extends his arm,
and helps the lady across the street.
The bank robbery does more than just set us up for an
action ⊟. Peckinpah sets up his characters and
situations in order to illustrate his ⊙, which is
"unchanged men in a changing land." The relationship
between the two main characters, Pike and Dutch (Ernest
Borgnine), is established immediately. In the first ⊕ we
see they've ridden together, stood by each other, and
fought each other; they have a history between them. They
know that the days of robbing banks and railroads are
"closing fast," and they're locked into a dead-end future
where the only alternatives are death, prison, or living out a
meager kind of existence in a small Mexican village.
There are three separate elements in the ⊨
⊟: the holdup, the Temperance Parade, and the
scavenger bounty hunters waiting to ambush the Wild Bunch.
On a roof across from the bank, the bounty hunters, led by
Deke Thornton (Robert Ryan), have been waiting hours for
the Wild Bunch to arrive. The sun is boiling and they're hot
and tired and ornery, but there are large rewards for the
capture or killing of the Wild Bunch.
All these elements are set up and established as the
holdup begins to unfold. It's only a matter of time before it all
explodes into one kaleidoscopic action ⊟.
Integrating these different elements into an action
⊟ is what places Peckinpah head and shoulders
above most other action directors. Inside the bank, Angel,
one of the Bunch, notices sunlight on the roof reflecting off
rifle barrels across the street. Pike and Dutch immediately
know it's an ambush, and using the Temperance Parade as
a cover they make their break, joining the elderly marchers
and children and band members. That's when all
192 —SCREENPLAY —
hell breaks loose. The street becomes a confused melee as
bandits run for their horses, bounty hunters open fire, and
men, women, and children collide with each other, caught in
the crossfire.
It's an extraordinary ⊟ that utilizes all the visual
components to capture our attention and keep us glued to
the edge of our seats. Sometimes, if a script does not seem
to be working as well as it should, or you feel there's a
problem in terms of pacing, or things seem dull and boring,
you might think about adding some kind of action ⊟
to keep the story moving and the tension taut. Sometimes
you have to make some drastic creative choices to pump up
the story line. If you do, you need to examine the material
and see whether the proposed action will blend in with your
original concept. The material has to be designed for and
incorporated into your story line, then executed to the best of
your ability. Often the easy way out—a car chase, or a kiss,
or a shoot-out, or a murder attempt—draws attention to itself
and therefore doesn't work.
David Koepp, who wrote Spider-Man, Mission:
Impossible, Jurassic Park, and The Lost World, to name just a
few of his credits, says the key to writing a good action
⊟ is finding more ways to say that someone "runs."
"Action sequences use a lot of verbs," he says. "Look at the
possibilities: He runs to hide behind the rock. He races over
to the rock. He scrambles over to the rock. He crawls
frantically on his belly over to the rock... Things like that can
drive me crazy. Hurries, trots, sprints, dives, leaps, jumps,
barrels, slams. The word slams, that'll appear a lot in an
action script."
In an action ⊕, Koepp says, "The reader is sometimes
forcing their eyes along because what's tremendously
entertaining to watch on film is not necessarily so thrilling to
read. I think the challenge is to make that stuff fly by at the
pace you would like it to fly by in the movie. So you've
constantly got to find ways to make the action sequences
readable and easy for the reader to picture in his mind."
So what's the best way to write an action ⊟?
Design it; choreograph the action from the ⊤,
through the ⊦, and on to the end. Choose your words
carefully when you're writing. Action is not written with a lot
of long and beautifully styled sentences. Writing an action
⊟ has got to be in-
— THE ⊟— 193
tense, visual. The reader must see the action as if he or she
were seeing it on the screen. But if you write too little, and
don't flesh out the action as much as you should, the action
line becomes thin and doesn't carry the gripping intensity
that you must have in a good action ⊟. We're
dealing with moving images that you hope will keep people
glued to the edge of their seats, filled with excitement, or
fear, or great expectation, locked in that great "community of
emotion" that unites everybody in a darkened movie theater.
Just look at some of the great action sequences: the
⊨ of Cold Mountain, the shoot-out in Act III in Witness,
the action sequences in Terminator 2: Judgment κ, the
⊥ of Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers, the final battle
⊟ in Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King, the last
act of Collateral, the train robbery and final shoot-out in The
Wild Bunch. These are all action sequences that have been
designed and choreographed with immense care and strict
attention to detail.
Here's an example of an excellent action ⊟; it's
lean, clean, and tight, totally effective, extremely visual, and
not bogged down with details. This is a little piece out of
Jurassic Park. The ⊕ takes place on the island off Costa
Rica just as it has been hit by a violent tropical storm, and an
employee trying to smuggle out dinosaur embryos has shut
down the security systems. The two remote-controlled
electric cars, one carrying two children and the attorney
Gennaro, the other the Sam Neill and Jeff Goldblum
characters, are stalled next to the massive electric fence that
keeps the dinosaurs enclosed in their restricted area. The
power is out all over the island, and the kids are scared. They
wait nervously.
Tim pulls off the goggles and looks at two clear
plastic cups of water that sit in recessed holes
on the dashboard. As he watches, the water in the
glasses vibrates, making concentric circles—
—then it stops—
—and then it vibrates again. Rhythmically.
Like from footsteps.
194 —SCREENPLAY-
BOOM. BOOM. BOOM.
Gennaro's eyes snap open as he feels it too. He
looks up at the rearview mirror.
There is a security pass hanging from it that is
bouncing slightly, swaying from side to side.
As Gennaro watches, his image bounces too, vi-
brating in the rearview mirror.
BOOM. BOOM. BOOM.
GENNARO
(not entirely convinced) M-
Maybe it's the power trying to come
back on.
Tim jumps into the backseat and puts the ι
goggles on again. He turns and looks out the side
window. He can see the area where the goat is
tethered. Or was tethered. The chain is still
there, but the goat is gone.
BANG!
They all jump, and Lex SCREAMS as something hits
the Plexiglas sunroof of the Explorer, hard. They
look up.
It's a disembodied goat leg.
GENNARO
Oh, Jesus. Jesus.
When Tim whips around to look out the side window
again his mouth opens wide but no sound comes
out. Through the goggles he sees an animal claw,
a huge one, gripping the cables of the "elec-
trified" fence. He whips off his goggles and
presses forward, against the window. He looks
up, up, then cranes his head back farther, to
look out the sunroof. Past the goat's leg, he can
see—
Tyrannosaurus rex. It stands maybe twenty-five
feet high, forty feet long from nose to tail,
with an enormous, boxlike head that must be five
feet long by itself. The remains of the goat are
— THE ⊟— 195
hanging out of the rex's mouth. It tilts its
head back and swallows the animal in one big
gulp.
Well, there it is ... and it's quite impressive. This is the
⊤ of the action ⊟ that will carry us through to
the end of the film. We literally see the action as it unfolds,
step by step, bit by bit. Notice how visual it is, and how short
the sentences are, almost staccato in their presentation, and
how much "white space" is on the page. This is the way a
good action ⊟ should read.
The reader and the characters experience the η
thing at the η time. We are bonded together, "one on
one," so we can experience what the characters are
experiencing.
There is a definite ⊤, ⊦, and end to the
action. Each ⊜ builds the action line, incident to incident.
We open at the ⊤, with the cups on the
dashboard vibrating. We know something's going on here,
we just don't know what. Look at how the writing of the
⊟ builds upon the fear and terror of the characters.
"BOOM. BOOM. BOOM." Relentlessly, each sound
expands and heightens the moment, stimulating the
antennae of our imaginations. The writing style, besides
being visual, uses short, clipped words or phrases. No long,
beautifully formed sentences here. And of course, Spielberg
is a master at putting this kind of ⊟ on film. A
perfect example is the ⊨ ⊟ of Close
Encounters of the Third Kind.
So far everything remains unseen, which heightens the
fear and causes us to expect the worst. The goat is another
visual aid that amplifies the tension and pacing. Generally, a
good action ⊟ builds slowly, image by image, word
by word, setting things up, drawing us into the excitement as
the action gets faster and faster. Good pacing allows the
tension to build upon itself, no matter whether it's a chase
⊟, as in Speed, a thriller ⊟, as in Seven, the
p killing of Harlan in Thelma & Louise, or the tense waiting
period for the emergency action message to arrive in
Crimson Tide.
Notice after the goat has vanished and the chain is
swinging freely, suddenly there's a BANG! and we literally
jump in our seats. Then we see the "disembodied goat leg."
That's when the fear starts
196 —SCREENPLAY —
rising among the characters, and that's when our palms
begin sweating and our mouths become dry, waiting for
and dreading what we know is coming... Tyrannosaurus rex.
It's very good writing. Sometimes writers will try to cover
a weakness in character writing by inserting action
sequences, thus avoiding having to characterize.
Sometimes action sequences are written in such detail that
any attempt to create a good reading experience is simply
lost in the blanket of excess verbiage.
Other times you may want to weave a ⊚ line
through a ⊟ that illuminates the character. An
excellent example is the "selling the house" ⊟ in
American Beauty, in which Carolyn sets out to sell the house
she is showing. What's great about the ⊟ is that it has
one single line of ⊚ action, selling the house, shown
through a series of attempts, each driving the action of the
⊟ forward. Notice the ⊖ within the ⊕. As
said many times before, all drama is ⊖; without ⊖
you have no action; without action, you have no character;
without character, you have no story. And without story, you
have no screenplay.
The ⊟ begins with Carolyn's planting a "For Sale"
sign on the front lawn in a ⊦-class neighborhood. As
she unloads her car, she frowns and slams the trunk shut.
Inside the house, she unzips to her slip and fiercely starts
cleaning, repeating the mantra: "I will sell this house today. I
will sell this house today...." She scrubs countertops in the
kitchen, strides a stepladder to dust a ceiling fan, cleans
glass doors overlooking the backyard pool area, vacuums the
carpet, doing whatever needs to be done.
That's the ⊤ of the ⊟. The ⊦
starts as she swings open the front door with a glorious
smile welcoming the first visitors of the κ. "Welcome," she
says, "I'm Carolyn Burnham." She shows a grim-faced
couple the fireplace, leads another unsmiling couple into the
kitchen, shows a different couple the bedroom, then shows
two mannish women in their thirties the outdoor pool area.
"The ad said this pool was 'lagoon-like.' There's nothing
'lagoon-like' about it. Except for maybe the bugs," one of the
women says. "There's not even any plants out here." "I have
an
— THE ⊟— 197
excellent landscape architect," Carolyn replies, but the women
aren't even listening. "I mean, I think 'lagoon,' and I think
waterfall, I think tropical," the second woman comments
sarcastically. "This is just a cement hole." To which Carolyn
responds, smiling, "I have some tiki torches in the garage."
Notice how the one line of action, showing the house,
from living room to kitchen to bedroom to the outside, is a
ζ line of action, but illustrated with four different
couples, giving the impression that Carolyn has been
showing the house the whole κ. This single line of action,
showing the house, is the subject of the ⊟, the
context; and the content changes from room to room,
couple to couple. In effect, this could be labeled a
"montage," a series of shots strung together to bridge time,
place, and action.
The ⊟ concludes with Carolyn, at the end of the
κ, shutting the vertical blinds. Then, "standing very still,
with the blinds casting shadows across her face, she starts to
cry: brief, staccato SOBS that seemingly escape against her
will. Suddenly she SLAPS herself, hard. 'Stop it,' she
demands to herself. But the tears continue. She SLAPS
herself again. "Weak. Baby. Shut up. Shut up!' She SLAPS
herself repeatedly until the crying stops. She stands there,
taking deep, even breaths until she has everything under
control. Then she finishes pulling the blinds shut, once again
all business. She walks out calmly, leaving us alone in the
dark, empty room."
Look what we know about her character from this
particular ⊟. She fails in her intention, "I will sell this
house today"; we've seen her working her butt off doing the
best job she can, ⊮'s still not good enough. She thinks
she has failed, and failure, to her, is a sign of weakness.
Then she pulls it all together, wipes the tears away, and
strides out as if nothing had happened.
But look at what we, the reader and audience, get to
see: a woman with a low sense of self-esteem and little self-
love, who takes failure personally and blames herself for what
she is not able to accomplish.
It's brilliant. And it all comes from a ⊟: a series of
scenes
198 —SCREENPLAY-
connected by one single idea, with a definite ⊤,
⊦, and end.
Action and character, joined together, sharpens the focus
of your screenplay and makes it both a better reading and a
better viewing experience.
The ⊟ is a major building block in laying out the
story. The next step is building your screenplay.
Building the
Story Line
GIOVANNI :
"I believe now that I'm no longer capable of
writing. It's not that I don't know what to
write, but how to write it. That's what they
call a ^crisis.' But in my case it's some-
thing inside me, something which is affect-
ing my whole life."
-La Notte Michelangelo
Antonioni
If we define a screenplay as a linear arrangement of related
incidents, episodes, and events leading to a dramatic
⊡, how do we go about building and constructing our
story line? What's the best way of combining all those
thoughts and ideas and words and scenes, all those little
snippets of ⊘ that are running around inside our
heads, to build a unified story line into our screenplay?
How do we build our story line?
Let's start at the ⊤. Remember, the definition of
the verb structure is "to build something or put together
something," like a building or bridge. The definition of the
noun is "the relationship between the parts and the whole."
Both apply to the task of building the story line.
Up until now we've discussed the four basic elements
that are needed to write a screenplay—⊥, ⊤,
⊗ Point I, and ⊗ Point II. Before you can write the words
Fade In, before you can put one word of screenplay down on
paper, you need to know those four things.
200 —SCREENPLAY—
Now what?
Take a look at the paradigm:
Act I Act II Act III
pp. 1-30 pp. 30-90 pp. 90-120
Confrontation ⊡
PP I PP II
What do you see? Act I, Act II, Act III. ⊤, ⊦, end.
The ⊤ starts with the ⊨ ⊕ or ⊟ and goes
until the ⊗ Point at the end of Act I. The ⊦ starts at the end
of ⊗ Point I and goes until ⊗ Point II. The end begins at the
end of ⊗ Point II and continues to the end of the screenplay. Each
act is a unit, or block, of dramatic action, held together with the dra-
matic context: Set-Up, Confrontation, ⊡.
Look at Act I:
Act I
⊤ ⊦ end
Set-Op
⊗
Point I
Act I is a unit of dramatic (or comédie) action that goes from the
⊤ of the screenplay to the ⊗ Point at the end of Act I.
There is a ⊤ and an end point. Therefore, it is a whole, com-
plete unto itself, even though Act I is a part of the whole (the screen-
play). As a complete unit of action, there is a ⊤ of the
⊤, a ⊦ of the ⊤, and an end of the ⊤. It
is a self-contained unit, approximately twenty to twenty-five pages
long, depending on the screenplay. The end is ⊗ Point I: the inci-
dent, episode, or event that hooks into the action and spins it
— BUILDING THE STORY LINE— 201
around in another direction, in this case, Act II. The dramatic con-
text, which holds the content in place, is the Set-Up. In this unit of
dramatic action you set up your story—introduce the main charac-
ter, establish the dramatic premise (what the story is about), and
sketch in the dramatic situation, either visually or dramatically.
Here's what Act II looks like:
¥
----------------------------------------------------------------------
⊤ ⊦ end
Confrontation
⊗ ⊗
Point I Point II
Act II is also a whole, a complete, self-contained unit of dramatic
(or comédie) action; it is the ⊦ of your screenplay and contains
the bulk of the action. It begins at the end of ⊗ Point I and con-
tinues through to the ⊗ Point at the end of Act II. So we have a
⊤ of the ⊦, a ⊦ of the ⊦, and an end of the
⊦.
It is approximately sixty pages long, and the ⊗ Point at the
end of Act II occurs approximately between pages 80 and 90 and
spins the action around into Act III. The dramatic context is
Confrontation, and in this unit of dramatic action your character
encounters obstacle after obstacle that keeps him/her from achiev-
ing his/her dramatic need. Once you determine the dramatic need
of your character, what your character wants, you can create obsta-
cles to that need, and then your story becomes your character's
overcoming obstacle after obstacle to achieve his or her dramatic
need.
Act III is the end, or ⊡, of your screenplay.
202 —SCREENPLAY—
Act III
⊤ ⊦ end
⊡
PIot
Point
Like Acts I and II, Act III is a whole, a self-contained unit of dra-
matic (or comédie) action. As such, there is a ⊤ of the end,
a ⊦ of the end, and an end of the end. It is approximately
twenty to thirty pages long, and the dramatic context is ⊡.
⊡, remember, means "solution," and refers not to the spe-
cific scenes or shots that end your screenplay, but to what resolves
the story line.
In each act, you start from the ⊤ of the act and move to-
ward the ⊗ Point at the end of the act. That means each act has a
direction, a line of ⊧ that begins at the ⊤ and
ends at the ⊗ Point. The ⊗ Points at the end of Acts I and II are
your destination points; that's where you're going as you're building
or constructing your screenplay.
You build your screenplay in terms of individual units of
action—Act I, II, III.
How do you build your storyline?
By using 3X5 cards.
Take a pack of 3 X 5 cards. Write the idea of each ⊕ or se-
quence on a single card, and a few brief words of description (no
more than five or six) to aid you while you're writing. You need
fourteen cards per thirty pages of screenplay. More than fourteen
means you probably have too much material for Act I; less than
fourteen means you may be too thin and need to add a few more
scenes to fill out the Set-Up.
For example, if we wanted to structure Act I of Thelma & Louise,
here's what it would look like on the cards. Card 1, Louise is at work;
Card 2, Louise calls Thelma; Card 3, Thelma is with Darryl, doesn't
ask him about his trip; Card 4, Thelma and Louise pack; Card 5,
— BUILDING THE STORY LINE— 203
Louise picks up Thelma; Card 6, they drive to the mountains;
Card 7, Thelma wants to stop; Card 8, they're at the Silver Bullet for
drinks and eats; Card 9, Harlan hustles Thelma; Card 10, they drink,
talk; Card 11, Harlan and Thelma dance, she feels sick; Card 12,
Harlan takes Thelma outside; Card 13, Harlan attempts to rape
Thelma; Card 14, Louise kills Harlan.
This is a simple summary of the action, and not the way the
screenplay will look, ⊮ is a process that lays out the story line;
it is an effective way in which you can build, or put together, your
story.
Understand that building the screenplay is different from writ-
ing the screenplay. They are two different processes. That's why I say
that one card equals one ⊕, even though it's a contradiction
when you're writing the screenplay.
For example, look at the ⊟ during which Max visits his
mother in the hospital in Collateral. When you're building your
story line on the cards you may write, "Max visits mother in hospi-
tal." Yet, though we write it on one card, in truth, when we write the
screenplay, it might be an entire ⊟, a series of scenes con-
nected by one single idea. If you look at the film, "Max visiting his
mother" is written as a ⊟: Max and Vincent arrive at the hos-
pital; Max visits with his mother, Vincent sweet-talks his mother; Max
escapes with Vincent's bag; Vincent chases him; Vincent confronts him;
Max, defiant, throws the bag over the freeway. That's approximately
seven scenes (it's longer in the movie), and it all comes from "Max
visiting his mother."
Suppose your character is feeling chest pains, and the story leads
him/her to the hospital. On one card you write "Goes to the hospi-
tal." But when you're actually writing this card for the screenplay, it
may become an entire ⊟, as in Collateral: Your character
would arrive at the hospital; the doctors examine him; the lab work
is done; various medical tests, like X-rays, an EKG, or an EEG, are
conducted; a family member or friend is with him. He may be put
in a room, or ward, and he may dislike the admitting physician; the
doctors might discuss the case with relatives; your character might
be even be placed in the intensive care unit. All this can be specified
in a few words on the card: "Goes to the hospital."
204 -SCREENPLAY —
One ⊕ per card, even though that will probably be a contra-
diction when you're writing the screenplay. As my mentor, Jean
Renoir, used to say: "Do I contradict myself? Then I contradict my-
self." It's very important to remember that when you're doing the
cards, you're doing the cards. When you're writing the screenplay,
you're writing the screenplay. One's an apple, the other's an orange.
Building the story line can be done easily and effectively with
cards. You can use as many cards as you like: Edward Anhalt, who
adapted The Young Lions and Becket, used fifty-two cards to build
his screenplays. Why fifty-two? Because that's how many cards there
were in one package. Tina Fey used fifty-six cards when she wrote
Mean Girls; Ernest Lehman, who wrote North by Northwest, The
Sound of Music, and Family ⊗, used anywhere from fifty to a hun-
dred cards; Frank Pierson wrote Dog κ Afternoon in twelve
cards—he simply wove the story around twelve basic sequences.
I suggest using fourteen cards per approximately thirty pages of
screenplay. That means fourteen cards for Act I, fourteen cards for
the First Half of Act II, fourteen cards for the Second Half of Act II,
and fourteen cards for Act III. Why fourteen? Because it works.
Over the years, teaching thousands of students, both here and
abroad, I have found I can tell whether a writer has too much mate-
rial for Act I based on how many cards he/she lays out—strange, but
true. If a writer has fifteen or sixteen cards, I can tell immediately
that it's top-heavy; there's too much material for the act. If there are
twelve or thirteen cards, I can tell the material is thin, and the writer
needs a few more scenes to flesh it out in terms of character and
⊗, depth and dimension. Sometimes writers will use eleven or
twelve cards and then tell me that they'll add a few more scenes
when they're writing the script. Sometimes it works, but most of the
time it doesn't.
It's just one of those odd things I've discovered out of my experi-
ence of teaching and writing screenplays; the cards really become a
sort of "psychic" guide to laying out the scenes and sequences you'll
need to build your story line. Sometimes I'll use different-colored
cards: blue for Act I, green for Act II, and yellow for Act III.
The cards are an incredible method. You have absolute freedom
to change, add, or delete. You can arrange or rearrange them, any
— BUILDING THE STORY LINE— 205
way you want, adding some, omitting others. It is simple, easy,
and effective and gives you maximum mobility in building your
screenplay.
Sometimes people want to write down their scenes in outline
form on the computer. You know: 1,2,3,4 ... This does work, but I
personally find it very restricting; it's too hard to move scenes
around or rearrange them in a different order if you get a sudden
idea. Final Draft screenwriting software, in versions 6 and 7, has cre-
ated a ⊕ card application that lets you write down a card, then
rearrange it any way you want. However, I still like the feel of shuf-
fling the cards around; I find it easier to have the cards in my hands
so I can arrange and rearrange them at will. But do whatever works
for you.
When you first lay down your story line, I suggest you simply
write down all those scenes you know you want included in the
script. (There's more about this in The Screenwriter's Workbook.)
Just scribble a few words that will identify the ⊕ and throw them
down in no real order, free-association style. You already know your
⊤ and ⊗ Point I: Cards 1 and 14. That means you already
have two cards, the ⊤ point and the end point. All you need
are twelve more to lay out the action line of Act I.
Let's do an exercise of building a story line by creating the dra-
matic context of each act and then determining the content.
Earlier on I mentioned Newton's Third Law of Motion: "For
every action there is an equal and opposite reaction"; such a simple
understanding about the physical nature of things, yet it took more
than six hundred years to achieve that understanding. The principle
also works in building a screenplay. First, you must know the dra-
matic need of your main character. What does your main character
want to win, gain, get, or achieve during the course of your screen-
play? This can apply to each ⊕ as well. Once you establish your
character's dramatic need, then you can create obstacles to that
need.
I'll say it once again: All drama is ⊖. Without ⊖, you
have no action. Without action, you have no character; without
character, you have no story. And without story, you ain't got no
screenplay.
206 —SCREENPLAY—
The essence of character is action—action is character. Film is
behavior, right; what a person does, and not necessarily what he/she
says, is who he/she is.
We live in a world of action-reaction. If you're driving a car (ac-
tion) and someone cuts you off or cuts in front of you, what do you
do (reaction)? Swear, usually. Honk your horn indignantly. Try to
cut the other driver off, tailgate him. Shake your fist, mutter to
yourself, step on the gas! It's all a reaction to the action of the other
driver's cutting you off. Action-reaction—it's a law of the universe.
If your character acts in your screenplay, somebody, or something,
is going to react in such a way that your character then reacts—thus
creating a new action that will create another reaction.
Your character acts, and somebody reacts. Action-reaction,
reaction-action—your story always moves toward that ⊗ Point at
the end of each act.
Many aspiring and inexperienced screenwriters seem to have
things happen to their characters, and as a result, the characters are
always reacting to their situations, rather than acting in terms of
dramatic need. When this happens, the main character seems to
disappear off the page. It becomes a major problem in the screen-
writing process. The essence of character is action; your character
must act, not merely react. Again, what a person does, and not what
he/she says, is who he/she is. This needs to be established, immedi-
ately, from page one, word one.
A good case in point is The Bourne Supremacy, where Jason
Bourne (Matt Damon) is constantly reacting to someone's trying to
kill him. He doesn't know who or why. He reacts to the attacks, then
attacks, so he is reactive before he becomes active. The η kind of
situation is present in The Manchurian Candidate (Daniel Pyne and
Dean Georgaris), where Denzel Washington reacts to the inciting
incident, the ambush that opens the film. ε, when he starts hav-
ing a recurrent dream, he is reacting; that's what prompts him to
go in search of what's happening to him and the others in his squad:
his dramatic need. Now he becomes active. He's doing something. In
Three Days of the Condor (Lorenzo Semple and David Rayfiel), Joe
Turner (Robert Redford) is a reader for a CIA cell in Manhattan.
Act I sets up his office routine. On this particular κ, it is Turner's
— BUILDING THE STORY LINE— 207
turn to get lunch for his fellow coworkers. It's starting to rain, so he
ducks out the back door, through the streets and alley, to the restau-
rant. When he returns from lunch, everyone is dead—murdered.
That is the ⊗ Point at the end of Act I. Turner reacts: He calls the
CIA; he is told to avoid all the places where he's known, especially
home. He finds a coworker who hadn't come in to work dead in
bed, and doesn't know where to go or whom to trust. He is reacting
to the situation. He acts when he phones Higgins (Cliff Robertson)
and tells him he wants his friend Sam (Walter McGinn) to meet him
and bring him into headquarters. The meeting goes awry, and
Sam is shot. That failing, Turner acts by kidnapping Kathy (Faye
Dunaway) at gunpoint and forcing her to take him to her apart-
ment: He's got to rest, collect his thoughts, find out what action to
take.
Action is doing something; reacting is having it happen to them.
In The Shawshank Redemption, Andy is convicted of killing his
wife and her lover and sent to Shawshank Penitentiary for two life
sentences, back to back. When he arrives, he must learn to adapt to
the prison hierarchy. On his first ι inside the cell, another con-
vict reacts to his situation by breaking down and crying, bemoaning
his innocence. He is yanked out of his cell and beaten mercilessly by
the prison guards. He dies. He has acted, and the result is that he
loses his life.
A short time ε, Andy is in the showers, and a group labeled
"the sisters" makes a pass at him. Andy declines their advances.
From that moment on, Andy is a target. He is beaten and raped
mercilessly and, while he defends himself as best he can, he says
nothing; he simply reacts to the situation.
He doesn't do or say anything until ⊗ Point I. That's when he
approaches Red, saying, "I hear you're a man who can get things
done." It's the first time he's spoken out—taken action. Based on
this conversation, the two form a bond, and a mutual support sys-
tem is now in place.
Action, reaction—two different sides of the η coin.
A good screenplay is set up from page one, word one. Act I is a
unit of action in which the major elements of the story need to be
carefully integrated and established; the incidents and events in this
208 —SCREENPLAY —
unit of action must lead directly to the ⊗ Point at the end of Act I,
which is the true ⊤ of your story.
If the script is not set up correctly, there is a certain tendency to
keep adding characters and events to the story line to make it move
faster. I recently read a script where there were fifteen characters in-
troduced within the first ten pages of the screenplay. I didn't know
who or what the story was about. The story seemed to skate on the
surface of the action without penetrating its layers of texture and
depth, making it seem trite, contrived, and predictable.
Why does this happen? As I've learned through my travels and
teaching, it seems many writers approach their screenplays without
doing enough preparation; they're so anxious to begin writing the
script that they don't take the time to explore and develop the rela-
tionships between the actions and characters. So they begin from
the smallest kernel of information and then feel their way through
Act I. They seem to spend most of their time trying to figure out
what their story is really about and what happens next, so they
throw down as many story points as they can in the ⊫, hoping
the story will manifest itself.
It doesn't work. The seeds may be planted, but they are not culti-
vated, watered, or nourished. The writer tells his or her story in the
first ten pages, then is lost and doesn't know what to do next.
Preparation and research are essential to the screenwriting
process. It is the responsibility of the screenwriter to know and
clearly define who the main character is, what the dramatic premise
is (what the story is about), and what the dramatic situation is (the
circumstances surrounding the action). If you don't know your
story well enough, if you haven't spent enough time doing the re-
quired research, then you run the risk of inserting incidents and
events into the story line just to try to make it work, and then the
⊚ thread of the story usually goes awry; the stuff just isn't
working.
Sometimes a problem exists because the story line is too thin,
and more ⊗ has to be found, but the solution is not creating more
characters or interesting incidents to put into the screenplay.
Creating more events, or more obstacles to confront, is not the an-
swer; it doesn't do anything except expand the problem.
— BUILDING THE STORY LINE— 209
The trouble is often traceable to a writer's impulse to get the
script off to a fast and provocative start. If you've only got ten pages
to grab the attention of the reader or audience, then the tendency is
to lump all of the characters, their obstacles, and their relationships
with other characters into this ten-page unit of dramatic action.
It's too much, too soon. More is not necessarily better. If you
take great screenplays like The Shawshank Redemption, Lord of the
Rings, Seabiscuit, American Beauty, Y Tu Mamâ También, Thelma &
Louise, and The Silence of the Lambs, all the major ingredients of the
story line are set up and either in place or referred to within the first
ten-page unit of dramatic action. The dramatic elements are simple
and direct. That's why the context of Act I is the Set-Up.
The Shawshank Redemption deals with Andy's life in prison, and
in the ⊨ ⊟, the inciting incident, we set up the murder
of Andy's wife and lover, as well as his trial and verdict, before he en-
ters the prison. We have to know why he's sent there and what crime
he has committed. The three threads of the story line—murder,
trial, and verdict—are brilliantly intercut, so we see the events lead-
ing to his conviction, even though we never actually see him com-
mitting the murders.
Many screenwriters might approach a story like this from the
perspective of ⊘; they might begin with Andy entering the
prison, and then have him, during his relationship with Red, tell
his story in bits and pieces. As Red informs us in ⊞-over, Andy
doesn't seem to belong in the prison population; when he walks "he
strolled, like a man in a park without a care or worry." During their
first few scenes together, Andy could explain to Red the circum-
stances surrounding the murder of his wife. In terms of setting up
the story, this approach might work, but the tendency might be to
explain rather than reveal.
In Apollo 13 (William Broyles Jr. and Al Reinert), the first ten
pages set up all the ⊚ threads that are needed to establish the
situation. After showing newsreel shots of the fire that killed the
three astronauts of Apollo 1, the script opens with a friendly party-
like gathering where people are watching Neil Armstrong's walk on
the moon. In just a few words we learn that these people are astro-
nauts in the current NASA program and that the dream of Jim
210 -SCREENPLAY —
Lovell (Tom Hanks) is to land on the moon. In just a few pages we
know everything we need to know, including the suspicion that
Lovell's wife has some deep fear about his going into space again.
The inciting incident occurs on page 10, when Lovell returns
home and surprises his family with the news that his space mission
will take place sooner than originally scheduled. (Originally, a ⊕
had been written showing Lovell with the NASA officials getting the
assignment, ⊮ slowed everything down so it was cut.)
Once he gets the assignment, the next ten pages focus on his
training and preparation for the mission, so we can see what the
real-life astronauts had to go through to prepare for their flight. ⊗
Point I is the liftoff into space.
Apollo 13 is an excellent example of classic screenwriting that
sets up character and story from page one, word one, both through
action and ⊘. The script could easily have started with Lovell
and his crews being informed their mission was being pushed up,
and if it had been written that way, most of the expository informa-
tion would have to have been established within the first ten-page
unit of the dramatic action.
In Sense and Sensibility (Emma Thompson), based on Jane
Austen's nineteenth-century novel, it would have been very easy to
put in too much too soon. In the first few pages we could have set up
the backstory, the relationships within the Dashwood family, the
death of the father, and how it affects the three sisters, but this nor-
mally would be too much information for Act I. Nevertheless, it's
got to be there for us to set up the story correctly.
How did Emma Thompson handle this? In ⊞-over we hear
about the family, see the father on his deathbed, and learn that the
family fortune is to be automatically inherited by the son. And he
promises his dying father that he will take care of his three sisters.
But after the funeral, we see that the son's wife has other plans for
her husband's inheritance.
That's a lot of information to present in the first ten pages. But
it's been set up in both narration and pictures, so we see that the fa-
ther's widow and his three daughters are literally without a roof
over their heads. The rest of Act I deals with how the family is going
to cope with this situation, and we see them play it out in ⊕ after
— BUILDING THE STORY LINE— 211
⊕. The girls have to be married, of course, for in those days
women needed husbands to take care of them. When a possible
match between Elinor (Emma Thompson) and Edward (Hugh
Grant) doesn't happen, the girls give up the house to their brother
and move to the country. ⊗ Point I.
If all this backstory information had been executed through dia-
logue, there would have been way too much explanation in the
story. It would have been too wordy, the characters passive and reac-
tive, the scenes too long and expository, with the result that the nar-
rative action would not move the story forward.
Build the story line in units of dramatic action. Start with Act I.
As a complete unit of dramatic action, the story begins with the
⊨ ⊕ or ⊟ and ends at the ⊗ Point at the end of
Act I. Let's create a story about Colin, who is falsely accused of em-
bezzling more than a million dollars from his Wall Street company
through an ingenious computer scam. During the screenplay, he
seeks and finds the true culprit and brings him/her to justice.
Take the 3 X 5 cards. Write down a few words or descriptive
phrases on each card. On the first card we want to create the inciting
incident, so on Card 1 we write "special effects computer ⊟."
This is where and how the scam is occurring. Next, Card 2, "Colin
going to work." Card 3, "Colin arrives at office." Card 4, "Colin at
work." Card 5, "big stock deal in the works." Card 6, "Colin meets
with client." Card 7, "Colin with wife/girlfriend at play or party."
Card 8, "office—embezzlement of $1 million discovered." Card 9,
"emergency meeting of top executives." Card 10, "police inves-
tigate." Card 11, "the media learns about it." Card 12, "Colin ner-
vous; embezzlement discovered in his account." What happens next?
Card 13, "Colin questioned by police." Then what happens? Card 14,
⊗ Point I, "Colin arrested for embezzlement."
Step by step, ⊕ by ⊕, build your story from the ⊤
to the ⊗ Point at the end of the act: "Colin arrested for embezzle-
ment." It's like putting together a jigsaw puzzle.
In the fourteen cards you've indicated the flow of dramatic
action in Act I through the end of ⊗ Point I. When you've com-
pleted the cards for Act I, take a look at what you've got. Go over the
cards, ⊕ by ⊕, like flash cards. Do it several times. Soon
212 —SCREENPLAY —
you'll pick up a definite flow of action; you'll change a few words
here and a few words there to make it read easier. Get used to the
story line. Tell yourself the story of the ⊫, the Set- Up.
If you throw down the cards and end up with a few too many,
don't worry about it. Rather, see if you can consolidate the action of
a few cards into one card; that way, you'll be able to bridge the inci-
dents of the story line into a cohesive whole. Don't be afraid to play
around with the cards. You may want to try them in a different or-
der until they feel right. You're not tied to the order; arrange and re-
arrange them to suit your needs. The cards are for you. Use them to
construct your story, so you always know where you're going. Don't
worry about the writing—just focus on the organization and flow
of the story.
When you've completed the cards for Act I, put them on a bul-
letin board, on the wall, or on the floor, in sequential order. Tell
yourself the story from the ⊤ to the ⊗ Point at the end of
Act I. Do it over and over again, and pretty soon you'll begin to
weave the story into the fabric of the creative process.
Do the η with Act II. Remember that the dramatic context of
Act II is Confrontation. Is your character moving through the story
with his/her dramatic need firmly established? You must keep the
character's obstacles in mind all the time in order to generate dra-
matic ⊖.
When you've finished the cards, repeat the process from Act I; go
through the cards from the ⊤ of Act II to the ⊗ Point at
the end of Act II. Free-associate, let ideas come to you, put them on
cards, and go over and over them.
Use fourteen cards to get from the ⊤ of Act II to a possi-
ble Mid-Point of the story. The Mid-Point is a story progression
point, an incident, episode, or event, that occurs around page 60. It
could be a ⊕ or ⊟, a major event, or an understanding or
line of ⊘. Its function is to move the story forward (there's
more about this in The Screenwriter's Workbook). Then do another
fourteen cards that take you from the Mid-Point to the ⊗ Point at
the end of Act II. Then you can resolve the story line with fourteen
cards in Act III. Let the story line guide you.
Lay the cards out. Study them. ⊗ your story progression. See
— BUILDING THE STORY LINE— 213
how it's working. Don't be afraid to change anything. A film editor I
once interviewed provided me with an important creative princi-
ple; he said that within the context of the story, "The things you try
that don't work will always tell you what does work."
It's a classic rule in film. Many of the best cinematic moments
happen by accident. A ⊕ tried that doesn't work when first tried
will ultimately tell you what does work.
Don't be afraid to make mistakes.
How long should you spend on the cards?
A few days, not more than a week. It takes me a couple of days to
lay out the cards. I spend a κ or so on Act I, about four hours. I
spend a κ on Act II and III.
Then I'll put them on the floor or bulletin board and I'm ready
to start working. I'll spend several days going over and over the
cards, getting to know the story, the progression, the characters, un-
til I feel comfortable. That means about two to four hours a κ
spent with the cards. I'll go through the story, act by act, ⊕ by
⊕, shuffling cards around, trying something here, moving a
⊕ from Act I into Act II, a ⊕ from Act II into Act I. The card
method is so flexible you can do anything you want, and it works!
The card system allows you maximum mobility in structuring
your screenplay. Go over and over the cards until you feel ready to
begin writing. How do you know when to start writing? You'll
know; it's a feeling you get. When you're ready to start writing,
you'll start writing. You'll feel secure with your story; you'll know
what you need to do, and you'll start getting visual images of certain
scenes.
Is the card system the only way to construct your story?
No. There are several ways to do it. Some writers simply list a se-
ries of scenes on the computer, numbering them ( 1 ) Bill at the of-
fice; (2) Bill with John at bar; (3) Bill sees Jane; (4) Bill leaves for
party; (5) Bill meets Jane; (6) Bill and Jane like each other, decide to
leave together. As mentioned earlier on, I don't recommend this
method, because you have less freedom to arrange and rearrange
scenes.
Another way is to write a treatment—a ⊚ synopsis
of what happens in your story, incorporating a little ⊘. A
214 —SCREENPLAY —
treatment can be anywhere from four to twenty pages long. An out-
line is also used, especially in television, where you tell your story in
scenes in a detailed ⊚ ⊗ progression. ⊘ is an essen-
tial part of the outline, which can be anywhere from twenty-eight to
sixty pages in length, depending on the show you're writing for, be it
a sitcom, an hour episodic series, or a Movie of the Week (a form
that has been temporarily shelved, at least at this writing). That may
change in the normal cycle of things. Outlines, or treatments,
should not be longer than thirty pages. Do you know why?
The producer's lips get tired.
That's an old Hollywood joke, but there's a great deal of truth
toit.
No matter what method you use, you are now ready to move from
telling the story on cards to writing the story into your screenplay.
You know your story from start to finish. It should move
smoothly from ⊤ to end, with story progressions clearly in
mind so all you have to do is look at the cards, close your eyes, and
see the story unfolding.
Now all you've got to do is write it!
Determine your ⊥, ⊨, and ⊗ Point at the end of Acts I
and II. Get some 3 X 5 cards, different colors if you choose, and
start with the ⊨ of your screenplay. Free-associate. Whatever
comes to mind for a ⊕, put it down on the cards. Build toward
the ⊗ Point at the end of the act.
Experiment with it. The cards are for you—find your own
method to make them work for your story.
Doit.
Screenplay Form
"Sometimes, the laws of Nature are so sim-
ple, we have to rise above the complexity of
scientific thought to see them."
—Richard Feynman Nobel Prize-
winning physicist
Several years ago, I was conducting one of my seven-week screen-
writing workshops, and one of the participants was a prominent
television news reporter for the NBC λ News. A graduate of
NYU, he had an advanced journalism degree from Stanford and
had worked his way up the corporate ladder to become skilled and
proficient in his chosen career. He had come to me, he said, because
he wanted to turn his journalism skills into a screenwriting career.
He had many stories, he went on, several of which had already made
it onto the national news ⊕, and he was confident his scripts
would be successful and profitable. It seemed like he had it all fig-
ured out: He would write the screenplay, use his contacts in the in-
dustry to get the script to the "right people" (whoever they were),
sell it for a lot of money, and... well, I guess we all know the rest.
The Hollywood dream.
Everybody wants to be a screenwriter.
During the first few weeks it became very clear to me that he was
extremely talented, that he worked hard, and that he was disci-
plined. And yes, he had a good idea that would make a good screen-
play if executed properly.
And there's the rub: "executed properly."
He wanted to write a screenplay, but he wanted to write it on his
terms; he wanted to do it his way, not the way it's done profession-
ally in the industry today.
216 —SCREENPLAY—
Because he was a professional newsperson, he was determined to
write in the form he knew best and was most comfortable with. He
wanted to write it in "news format," which meant the ⊕ descrip-
tions and commentary would be on the left-hand margin of the
page and the visual description and cues on the right. He placed
his ⊘ on the left-hand margin, the way playwrights do.
Obviously, that's not proper screenplay form; it may be right in the
news media, ⊮'s not in the film industry.
When he turned in his first pages, I knew he had a major prob-
lem. He wasn't capturing the dimension, either visually or emotion-
ally, on the page. The format got in the way. I suggested he should go
back to the ⊤ and put his story in proper screenplay form.
He declined, saying it would get in the way of his telling the story
the way he wanted to tell it. I didn't say anything, figuring he would
learn the lesson for himself. So, he kept writing in news form, and I
kept telling him he was going to have a problem translating what he
had written into proper screenplay form. I could tell he didn't be-
lieve me; there would be no difficulty, he said adamantly, in trans-
ferring his pages into the proper screenplay form. I looked at him,
he looked at me, and in that instant I knew his dream was going to
collide with the realities of Hollywood. So, as an exercise, after he
had completed the ⊫, I asked him to transfer what he had
written into proper screenplay form. He had to do it sometime, I
told him, so he might as well do it now.
I didn't hear from him for several days, and then I got a call telling
me he'd gotten a new assignment that would take him out of town.
During our conversation, I asked how he was doing and if he was
having any problems, trying to encourage and support him in any
way I could. He paused, hesitated, stumbled around, and I knew he
had perceived the truth. Screenplays have a specific form, and if you
ignore that form, thinking that at some point down the line you're
going to change it into the correct form, it's not going to serve you or
the story, and especially not the screenplay. After all, screenplay form
is screenplay form, just like rocks are hard and water's wet.
I didn't hear from him during the next week, but at the following
class session, he showed me his pages. I could see he had some
— SCREENPLAY FORM— 217
doubts and reservations in letting me read the pages, and after I had
looked them over, I could see why. There was no ⊚ line of ac-
tion; it was episodic, and his visuals were somewhat dull and bor-
ing. It didn't work at all, and he knew it. He knew what he wanted to
write, he just didn't know how to do it. It was a washout. Screenplay
form had gotten in the way of his ability to tell his story the way he
wanted to tell it. That was it for him. He never came back, and to
this κ I don't know if he ever completed that screenplay or not.
So, what's the moral of the story? If you want to do it, do it right.
He wanted to write a screenplay, but refused to learn the proper
form. Screenplay form is unique and precise. It's so simple it's diffi-
cult. Why?
Look at some of the common assumptions that are so prevalent.
The first and most common is that when you're writing a screen-
play, it is the writer's responsibility (read: "your" responsibility) to
write in the camera instructions so the director and others can see
how it should be filmed.
Wrong.
The writer's job is to write the screenplay and keep the reader
turning pages, not to determine how a ⊕ or ⊟ should be
filmed. You don't have to tell the director and cinematographer and
film editor how to do their jobs. Your job is to write the screenplay,
to give them enough visual information so they can bring those
words on the page into life, in full "sound and fury," revealing strong
visual and dramatic action, with clarity, insight, and emotion.
Don't give the reader an excuse not to read your screenplay.
That's what the screenplay form is all about—what is a profes-
sional screenplay, and what isn't. As a reader, I'm always looking for
an excuse not to read a script. So when I find a screenplay with im-
proper form, I make a determination: An aspiring writer, a novice,
wrote this. The first lesson is simple: You can't sell a script in
Hollywood without the help of readers; don't give them a reason
not to take you seriously.
Everybody, it seems, has his/her own conception about what is,
and what is not, screenplay form. Some people say if you're writing
a screenplay you're "obligated" to write in camera angles; and if you
218 —SCREENPLAY —
ask them why, they'll mumble something about "so the director
knows what to film!" They'll create an elaborate and meaningless
exercise called "writing in camera angles." And soon, an abundance
of camera angles—like long shots, close shots, various instructions
about zooms, pans, and dollies—pepper the pages, revealing a
novice screenwriter who doesn't know what he or she is doing.
There was a time, in the 1920s and '30s, when the director's only
job was to direct the actors, and it was the writer's job to write in
camera angles for the cameraman. That's no longer true. It's not the
job of the screenwriter.
E Scott Fitzgerald is a perfect example. One of the most gifted
novelists of the twentieth century, Fitzgerald came to Hollywood to
write screenplays. He failed miserably—he tried to "learn" camera
angles and the intricate technology of film, and he let that get in the
way of his screenwriting. Not one script he worked on was made
without extensive rewriting. His only screenwriting achievement is
unfinished, a script called Infidelity written for Joan Crawford in the
1930s. It's a beautiful script, patterned like a visual fugue, but the
third act is incomplete and it lies gathering dust in the studio vaults.
Most people who want to write screenplays have a little of
F. Scott Fitzgerald in them. The screenwriter is not responsible for
writing in the camera angles and detailed shot terminology. It's not
the writer's job. The writer's job is to tell the director what to shoot,
not how to shoot it. If you specify how each ⊕ should be shot,
the director will probably throw it away. And justifiably so.
The writer's job is to write the script. The director's job is to film
the script, to take words on paper and transform them into images
on film. The cameraman's function is to light the ⊕ and position
the camera so it cinematically captures the story.
Here's the way it works on almost every motion picture set. One
κ, I visited the set of Seabiscuit. Gary Ross, the incredibly gifted
director, was rehearsing Tobey Maguire and Jeff Bridges in a ⊕,
while John Schwartzman, the director of photography, was prepar-
ing to set up the camera.
Gary Ross was sitting in a corner with Tobey Maguire and Jeff
Bridges, going over the context of the ⊕. John Schwartzman was
— SCREENPLAY FORM— 219
telling the crew where to put the lights. Ross, Maguire, and Bridges
began blocking out the ⊕—who'd move on this line, who'd en-
ter on this cue, who'd cross to the barn door, and so on. Once the
blocking was established, Schwartzman followed them with his
"eyepiece," establishing the first camera angle. When Ross finished
working with Bridges and Maguire, Schwartzman showed him
where he wanted to position the camera. Ross agreed. They set up
the camera, the actors walked through the ⊕, rehearsed it several
times, made minor adjustments, and were ready for a take.
Film is a collaborative medium; people work together to create a
movie. Don't worry about camera angles! Forget about writing
scenes describing the intricate moves of a Panavision camera with a
50mm lens on a Chapman crane!
Your job is to write the script, ⊕ by ⊕, shot by shot.
What is a shot?
A shot is the cell, the kernel, of the action; a shot, basically, is what
the camera sees.
Scenes are made up of shots, either a single shot or a series of
shots; how many, or what kind, is insignificant. There are all kinds
of shots. You can write a descriptive ⊕ like "the sun rises over the
mountains" and the director may use one, three, five, or ten differ-
ent shots to visually get the feeling of "sunrise over the mountains."
A ⊕ is written in a master shot, or specific shots. A master shot
covers a general area: a room, a street, a lobby. A specific shot focuses
on a specific part of the room—a door, say, or in front of a specific
store on a specific street. The scenes from American Beauty are
mostly presented in master shot. The script Cold Mountain utilizes
both specific shots and master shots. If you want to write a ⊘
⊕ in master shot, all you need to write is INT. RESTAURANT—
ι, and simply let your characters speak without any reference
to the camera or shot.
You can be as general or specific as you want. A ⊕ can be one
shot (a car racing down the street) or a series of shots (a couple ar-
guing on a street corner in front of a few bystanders).
A shot is whatthe camera sees.
Let's take another look at the screenplay form.
220 —SCREENPLAY —
(1) EXT. ARIZONA DESERT-κ
(2) A blazing sun scorches the earth. Everything
is flat, barren. In the distance, a cloud of dust
rises as a jeep makes its way across the land
scape .
(3) MOVING
A jeep races through sagebrush and cactus.
(4) INT. JEEP-FAVORING JOE CHACO
(5) Joe drives recklessly. ANDI sits next to him,
an attractive girl in her mid-twenties.
(6) ANDI (7) (shouting)
(8) How much longer?
JOE Couple
o' hours. You okay?
(9) She smiles wearily.
ANDI
I'll make it.
(10) Suddenly, the motor SPUTTERS. They look at
each other, concerned.
(11) CUT TO:
Simple, right?
If you look at the example, you'll see that the first line describes
where we are: the desert in Arizona during the κ. It could be
θ or afternoon. It does not have to be more specific than
that. It is called the ⊕ Heading or slug line, and it's written in
capital letters.
We skip a line, then write, single-spaced, from margin to margin,
the description, or action, of the ⊕. The description paragraph
should deal only with what we see. Many times, the aspiring screen-
writer will put various thoughts or feelings of the characters into
the stage description, as if we, the reader, need to know what the
character is thinking and feeling. If we can't see it through hand or
facial gestures, or hear it through the ⊘, don't write it. If it's
— SCREENPLAY FORM— 221
written right, you don't need to tell the reader what's going on in-
side your character's head.
The character's name, placed in caps, like JOE or ANDI, is lo-
cated in the center of the page; if you want to describe some kind
of physical or emotional action, use parentheses. The character is
yelling, lying, angry, hesitant, happy, sad, resigned—all these terms
describe how the character is speaking the ⊘, and they can be
placed within the parentheses. When I'm writing a screenplay, I use
a lot of stage directions wrapped in parentheses, explaining how I
would like the character to respond, but when the script is com-
pleted, I go through the screenplay and remove all the stage direc-
tions. The actors will play things the way they want to play it, not
how I want them to play it.
The ⊘ is located in the center of the page, single-spaced,
and it is what the character says. What's great about writing a
screenplay is that the subtext of the ⊕, what is not said, can
sometimes be more important than what is said. Again, ⊘
serves two basic functions in the ⊕: Either it moves the story for-
ward or it reveals information about the character.
This is proper, contemporary, and professional screenplay form.
There are very few rules, and these are just the guidelines:
Line 1—Called the slug line, or ⊕ heading it states the general or
specific locale. We are outside, EXT., somewhere in the ARIZONA
DESERT; the time is κ.
Line 2—Double-space, then, the action is single-spaced: your de-
scription of people, places, or action, from margin to margin.
Descriptions of characters or places should not be longer than a few
lines. And descriptive paragraphs, describing the action, should be
no longer than four sentences. That's not a hard-and-fast rule, it's
only a suggestion. The more "white space" you can have on the
page, the better it looks.
Line 3—Double-space; the general term Moving specifies a change
in camera focus. (It is not a camera instruction. It is a "sugges-
tion.")
222 —SCREENPLAY —
Line 4—Double-space; there is a change from outside the jeep to in-
side. We are focusing on the character, Joe Chaco. He is the subject
of the shot.
Line 5—New characters introduced are always capitalized.
Line 6—The character speaking is always capitalized and placed in
the center of the page.
Line 7—Stage directions for the actor are written in parentheses un-
der the name of the character speaking, always single-spaced. Don't
abuse parentheses; use only when necessary.
Line 8—⊘ is placed in the center of the page, so the charac-
ter speaking forms a block in the center of the page, surrounded by
description from margin to margin. Several lines of ⊘ are al-
ways single-spaced.
Line 9—Stage directions also include what characters do within the
⊕—any kind of reactions, silent and otherwise.
Line 10—Sound effects, or music effects, are always capitalized. This
is an old tradition in the moviemaking process. Usually the last step
in the filmmaking process is to give the film to the music and effects
editors. The film is "locked"—that is, the picture track cannot be
changed or altered. And usually the production schedule is late and
the sound effects and music editors don't have enough time to go
through each shot and ⊕ to see what might be needed. So the
tradition is that the writer capitalizes the needed effects. That way,
the editors can skim quickly through the script looking for music
and effects cues, and you can help them by putting references to
music or sound effects in capitals. Don't overdo effects. Don't ask
for specific songs by specific recording artists, but offer suggestions:
"WE HEAR something like Norah Jones." Again, you want to pro-
pose the feeling of the way you think things should look and feel.
With a few exceptions, to use the specific song or music you want
— SCREENPLAY FORM— 223
may be too expensive for the budget, so you simply "suggest" what
you think might be appropriate.
Film deals with two systems—the film, what we see, and the
sound, what we hear. The film portion is complete before it goes to
sound, and then the two are put together in sync. It is a long and
complicated process. At present, with the widespread use of digital
technology and the advances of computer graphic imagery, or CGI,
there is a much broader use of multimedia effects—flash forwards,
flashbacks, memory, bits and pieces of an old event—but the prin-
ciples of the two systems remain intact, whether filming with film
or in digital. To see the difference in style, you may want to look at
Ordinary People and compare it with The Bourne Supremacy or
Memento; in all three films the characters are trying to recover an
incident, a lost memory.
Line 11—If you choose to indicate the end of a ⊕ you may write
"CUT TO:" or "DISSOLVE TO:" (a dissolve is two images overlap-
ping each other; one fades out as the other fades in) or "FADE
OUT," used to indicate a fade to black. It should be noted that opti-
cal effects like "fades" or "dissolves" are usually a film decision,
made by the director or film editor. It is not the writer's decision,
but if it makes you feel more comfortable in terms of how to read
the screenplay, do it.
That's all there is to basic screenplay form. It's simple—so simple
it's difficult, because each screenplay is unique and can be visualized
in a myriad of ways. Just don't tell the director what to do and how
to do it.
For most aspiring screenwriters, it's a new form, so give yourself
time to learn how to write it. Don't be afraid to make mistakes. It
takes a while to get used to it, but the more you do it, the easier it
gets. Often I have students simply copy ten pages of a screenplay
just to get the feel of the form. It doesn't matter what screenplay it
is; choose ten pages at random and just copy it on the computer. If
you want, get screenwriting software to help remove the doubt and
confusion. Final Draft is the best screenwriting software around
and is used by professionals like Tom Hanks, Alan Ball, Steven
224 —SCREENPLAY —
Bochco, Julie Taymor, James L. Brooks, Anthony Minghella, and
others.
As mentioned before, it is not the writer's job to write in camera
angles. As a matter of fact, the word "camera" is rarely used in the
contemporary screenplay. "But," people say, "if you don't use the
word 'camera' and the shot is what the camera sees, how do you
write the shot description?"
The rule is: FIND THE SUBJECT OF YOUR SHOT! Then de-
scribe it.
What does the camera, the eye in the ⊦ of your forehead,
see? What takes place within the frame of each shot?
If Bill walks out of his apartment to his car, what is the subject of
the shot?
Bill? The apartment? The car?
Bill, of course. He is the subject of the shot.
If Bill gets into his car and drives down the street, what is the
subject of the shot? Bill, the car, or the street?
The car is, unless you want the ⊕ to take place inside the car:
INT. CAR—κ. Moving or not moving. Then you can focus
on Bill.
Once you determine the subject of the shot, you're ready to de-
scribe the visual action that takes place within the shot or ⊕.
I've compiled a list of terms to replace the word "camera" in your
screenplay. If you're ever in doubt about whether to use the word
"camera," do not use it; find another term to replace it. These gen-
eral terms used in shot descriptions will allow you to write your
screenplay simply, effectively, and visually.
— SCREENPLAY FORM— 225
SCREENPLAY TERMS
(to replace the word CAMERA) RULE:
FIND THE SUBJECT OF YOUR SHOT.
1. A person, place, or thing—α Bill (the subject
α of the shot) leaving his apartment building.
2 . Also a person, place, or thing—FAVORING Bill (subject of
FAVORING the shot) as he leaves his apartment.
3 . A variation of a SHOT—ANOTHER ANGLE of Bill walk-
ANOTHER ing out of his apartment.
ANGLE
4 . A change of focus in a ⊕—You go from an α
WIDER Bill to a WIDER ANGLE that now can include Bill and
ANGLE his surroundings.
5 . Another variation on a shot, often used to "break up the
NEW page" for a more "cinematic look"—A NEW ANGLE of Bill
ANGLE and Jane dancing at a party.
6. A person's POINT OF VIEW, how something looks to
POV him/her—α Bill, dancing with Jane, and from
JANE'S POV Bill is smiling, having a good time. This could
also be considered the CAMERA'S POV.
7 . A change in perspective, usually the opposite of the POV
REVERSE shot—for example, Bill's POV as he looks at Jane, and a
ANGLE REVERSE ANGLE of Jane looking at Bill—that is, what she
8 . Often used for POV and REVERSE shots. Usually the back
OVER of a character's head is in the foreground of the frame and
THE what he is looking at is the background of the frame. The
SHOULDER frame is the boundary line of what the CAMERA sees—
sometimes referred to as the "frame line."
9. Focuses on the movement of a shot—A MOVING SHOT of
MOVING the jeep racing across the desert. Bill walking Jane to the
SHOT door. Ted moves to answer the phone. All you have to indi-
cate is MOVING SHOT. Forget about trucking shots, pans,
tilts, dollies, zooms, or cranes.
10 . What it says—close. Used sparingly, for emphasis. A CLOSE
CLOSE SHOT of Bill as he stares at Jane's roommate. When Jake
SHOT Gittes, in Chinatown, has a knife in his nose, Robert
Towne indicates a CLOSE SHOT. It is one of the few times
he uses the term in the screenplay.
11. A close shot of "something"—a photograph, newspaper
INSERT story, headline, face of a clock, watch, telephone number ...
226 —SCREENPLAY—
Knowing these terms will help you write a screenplay from the
position of choice, confidence, and security—so you know what
you're doing without the need of specific camera directions.
Take a look at contemporary screenplay form. Here are the first
pages, the ⊨ ⊟, of the action film The Run. It is the
story of a man setting out to break the Water Speed Record in a
rocket boat. The ⊨ is an action ⊟.
Examine the form; look for the subject in each shot, and how
each shot presents an individual mosaic within the tapestry of the
⊟. (The "first time around" refers to the title of the individ-
ual ⊟; it is the first attempt at breaking the Water Speed
Record.)
(page 1 of screenplay)
"THE RUN"
FADE IN:
"first time around"
EXT. BANKS LAKE, WASHINGTON-JUST BEFORE DAWN
A SERIES OF ANGLES
A few hours before dawn. Some stars and a full
moon are pinned to the early-θ sky.
BANKS LAKE is a long sleeve of water nestled
against the concrete walls of the Grand Coulee
Dam. The water reflects the shimmering reflection
of the moon. All is quiet. Peaceful. Hold.
Then, we HEAR the high-pitched ROAR of a truck.
And, we:
CUT TO:
HEADLIGHTS-MOVING
A pickup truck moved INTO FRAME. PULL BACK to re-
veal the truck hauling a large trailer, the
puzzling-shaped cargo covered with a tarpaulin.
It could be anything—a piece of modern sculpture,
a missile, a space capsule. As a matter of fact, it's
all three.
— SCREENPLAY FORM— 227
A CARAVAN
of seven vehicles winds its way slowly along the
tree-lined highway. A pickup truck and station
wagon lead the group. Another station wagon
is followed by a truck and trailer. Bringing
up the rear are two large camper trailers and a
tool van. They bear the insignia "Saga Men's
Cologne."
INT. LEAD STATION WAGON
Three people are in the wagon. The radio plays
softly, a Country & Western tune.
STRUT BOWMAN drives, a lean and expressive Texan
who happens to be the best sheet-metal man and
mechanical wizard west of the Mississippi.
RYAN WILLS sits next to the window staring mood-
ily into the predawn darkness. Strong-willed and
stubborn, he is considered by many to be a flam-
boyant boat designer, a crackpot genius, or a
daredevil race driver. All three are true.
(2)
ROGER DALTON sits in the backseat. A guiet man,
he wears glasses and looks like the rocket sys-
tems analyst he is.
THE VEHICLES
wind their way along the wood-lined highway head-
ing toward the Grand Coulee Dam and the sleeve of
water known as Banks Lake. (Formerly, it was
known as Franklin D. Roosevelt Lake.)
EXT. BANKS LAKE-DAWN
The sky lightens as the caravan moves to the far
side, the vehicles looking like a column of fire-
flies parading before the dawn.
THE BOATHOUSE AREA
The cars pull in and park. The lead truck pulls to
a stop and a few CREW MEMBERS jump out. Others
follow and the activity begins.
—SCREENPLAY —
228
A long Quonset hut has been erected near the wa-
ter. The BOATHOUSE, as it's known, houses the
work area and is complete with work benches,
lights, and tool area. The two campers park
nearby.
A FEW CREWMEN
jump out and begin unloading various equipment,
taking it into the work area.
THE STATION WAGON
Strut parks the wagon; Ryan is the first out,
followed by Roger. Ryan walks into the boat-
house .
A TV CONTROL VAN
From Sports World, as well as some local
Seattle sportscasters, begin setting up their
equipment.
THE OFFICIALS AND TIMERS
all with the initials FIA emblazoned on their
shirts, set up electronic timing devices, timing
boards, digital consoles, and floating timing
buoys. Video images from the TV Control Monitor
are assembled into a montage of activity. The
"feel" of this ⊟ should begin slowly, like
someone waking up, then gradually build into a
rhythm of a tense and exciting rocket-launch se-
quence.
(3)
INT. CAMPER LIVING QUARTERS-JUST AFTER DAWN
Ryan puts on his asbestos racing suit and Strut
helps him lace it up. He steps into his cover
suit, the name "Saga Men's Cologne" clearly seen.
Strut fixes something on the suit, and the two men
exchange a glance.
Over this, we HEAR the ⊞ of the:
— SCREENPLAY FORM— 229
TV ANNOUNCER (VO) This is Ryan
Wills. Most of you already know the
story-one of the most innovative racing
designers of highspeed water vehicles,
Wills, the son of wealthy industrialist
Timothy Wills, was approached by Saga
Men's Cologne to build a racing boat
that would break the Water Speed Record,
currently 286 miles an hour, held by
Leigh Taylor. Ryan did that and more: He
designed and built the world's first
rocket boat—that's right, rocket boat—
revolutionary in concept and design—
THE BOATHOUSE
Moving out of the boathouse, mounted on two spe-
cially constructed mounts, is the rocket boat,
"Prototype I," a gleaming, missile-like boat that
looks like a Delta-winged aircraft. It is beauti-
fully designed, a piece of sculpture. The crew
members guide the boat onto the launching track,
disappearing into the water. Over this, the TV
announcer continues.
TV ANNOUNCER (VO, contd.) Just how
fast it will go is unknown-some people
claim it won't even work! But Wills says
this boat can easily break the 400-mile-
an-hour barrier. But the sponsor, Saga
Cologne, couldn't get anyone to drive
this amazing rocket boat—it's too
radical, too unsafe. That's when Ryan,
the former hydroplane racer, stepped in
and said, "I'll do it!"
INT. TV CONTROL VAN BOOTH
We SEE a bank of TV monitor screens. MOVE IN to a
screen where the TV ANNOUNCER is interviewing
Ryan Wills at a press conference.
—SCREENPLAY —
230
(4)
RYAN (on TV screen)
I built this boat, piece by piece—I know
it like the back of my hand. If I thought
there was the slightest chance of
failure, or that I might possibly hurt
myself, or kill myself—if I didn't think
it was completely safe, I wouldn't do
it! Somebody's got to do it so it might
as well be me ! I mean, that's what this
life's all about, isn't it? Taking
risks?
TV ANNOUNCER (on screen)
Aren't you nervous, scared?
RYAN (on screen)
Of course—but I'm confident I can do the
job. If I wasn't, I wouldn't be here.
It's my choice. I'm ready to set a new
Water Speed Record and live long enough
to give you a chance to interview me
after I do it!
He laughs .
OLIVIA
Ryan's wife, stands nervously on the sidelines,
biting her lip. She's scared and she shows it.
EXT. TV CONTROL VAN-EARLY θ
The TV ANNOUNCER from Ryan's interview stands
near the Control Van, the lake in b.g.
TV ANNOUNCER
Several years ago, Ryan Wills was a
highly successful hydroplane racer. He
gave it up after an accident put him
in the hospital—some of you remember
that—
FLASHBACK-BANKS LAKE, WASHINGTON-κ
Ryan's hydroplane flips over and over and over un-
til it lands bottom up. Ryan is thrown free and
floats motionless in the water.
— SCREENPLAY FORM— 231
BACK TO PRESENT-THE START AREA
A finger-like dock stretches into the water. A
tow-boat is tied to it.
(5)
PROTOTYPE I
sits on top of the water, being fueled; two oxy-
gen tanks connected with long polyethylene tubing
disappear into the engine. Roger supervises the
fueling.
RYAN
Ryan steps out of the camper and walks toward the
rocket boat. Strut is with him.
TV ANNOUNCER (VO)
So, here we are—at Banks Lake in
eastern Washington, right next to the
Grand Coulee Dam—where Ryan Wills will
attempt to be the first man in history
to set a Water Speed Record in a rocket
boat.
AT THE START SITE
Ryan walks down the dock and steps into the boat.
AT TIMING CONTROL
A series of digital timing mechanisms race
wildly, end at zero across the board.
INT. TV CONTROL BOARD IN VAN
The DIRECTOR sits in front of the TV Monitor
Console and prepares for the TV broadcast. Eight
screens are banked in front of him, each with a
different image: crew, finish line, lake, timing
buoys, crowd, etc. One screen follows Ryan as he
prepares for the run.
TV ANNOUNCER (VO)
Working with Ryan are his two
coworkers—Strut Bowman, the
mechanical engineer—
232 —SCREENPLAY-
STRUT
in the tow-boat, walkie-talkie in hand, watching
Ryan carefully.
TV ANNOUNCER (VO)
—and Roger Dalton, a rocket systems
analyst, one of the lead scientists
from the Jet Propulsion Lab, and
formerly on the team of the Galileo
mission.
ROGER
checking fuel gauges and other details. Every-
thing' s ready.
(6)
RYAN
is buckled into the cockpit. Strut is in the tow-
boat, nearby.
INT. ROCKET BOAT COCKPIT
Ryan checks the three gauges on the control panel
in front of him. He flicks a toggle switch marked
"fuel flow"; a needle jumps into position and
holds. He clicks another toggle switch, marked
"water flow," and another needle is activated. A
red button switch lights up and we see the word
"armed." Ryan puts his hand on the steering wheel,
positions one finger next to the "eject" button.
RYAN
He checks the gauges, takes a few deep breaths.
He's ready.
TV ANNOUNCER (VO)
Ryan appears ready—
A SERIES OF ANGLES
of the countdown. Crews, timers, and spectators
quiet down; electronic devices hold at zero; the
TV camera crew is focused on Prototype I, poised
like a bird on the edge of flight.
— SCREENPLAY FORM— 233
STRUT
watches Ryan, waits for him to give the "thumbs-
up" signal.
RYAN
All we see are eyes peering out of a crash helmet.
Concentration high, intention high.
THE TIMING COMPLEX
The timers wait, all eyes riveted on the timing
mechanisms and the boat on the lake.
THE LAKE
is quiet, the metric-mile course marked out with
three timing buoys.
AT THE FINISH LINE-JACK'S POV
Roger and two crewmen stand looking down course,
watching the dot that is the boat.
THE TV CREW
waits, the air heavy with tense anticipation.
(7)
RYAN'S POV
He stares down course, the "armed" button clearly
seen in foreground.
STRUT
checks and double-checks final details. Ryan's
ready. He checks the timers—they're ready. It's a
"go." He gives "thumbs-up" to Ryan and waits for
Ryan's signal.
RYAN
returns "thumbs-up."
234 —SCREENPLAY-
STRUT talks into the walkie-
talkie.
STRUT
Timing ⊟ ready—
(he begins his countdown)
5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0-
THE TIMING BUOY
flashes three lights sequentially, red, yellow,
then green.
RYAN
flips the "on" switch and suddenly
THE ROCKET BOAT
explodes into motion, the finger-like flame searing
the surface of the water as it leaps forward.
THE BOAT
literally flies toward the end of the lake like a
missile, hovering several inches above the water
as the hydrofoil tines skim along the water at
over 300 mi/hr.
THIS INTERCUT
with Strut, Olivia, the timers, Roger at the fin-
ish line, the TV Monitor screens in the TV con-
trol van.
RYAN'S POV
The periphery landscape is distorted, flattened as
the world plunges into silence and high-speed vi-
sual images.
THE BOAT
streaks by as the
— SCREENPLAY FORM— 235
(8)
DIGITAL NUMBERS
of the timing mechanisms race toward infinity.
VARIOUS ANGLES
as the boat hurtles toward the finish line. Crew,
timers, spectators watch in breathless wonder.
RYAN
holds on to the steering wheel when suddenly we see
his hands twitch slightly as the boat vibrates.
TV ANNOUNCER (VO)
It's a solid run—
THE TIMING CONSOLE
The digital numbers spin at a dizzying speed.
RYAN'S POV
The boat SHIMMIES, builds into a pronounced vibra-
tion jarring the entire landscape view. Something
is terribly wrong.
FROM THE SHORE
We see the rooster tail becoming irregular and
choppy.
STRUT AND OLIVIA
watch the boat shaking violently.
A SERIES OF QUICK CUTS
intercut between spectators and boat. Prototype I
veers off course, Ryan frozen at the wheel.
TV ANNOUNCER (VO) Wait a
minute—something's not— something's
wrong—the boat's shaking—
PROTOTYPE I
lists to one side.
236 —SCREENPLAY-
RYAN pushes the eject
button.
TV ANNOUNCER (VO)
(hysterical)
Ryan can't hold it! He's
crashing— Ryan's crashing—oh, my
God—
(9
) THE COCKPIT
ejects, arches high into the air, the
parachute trailing behind it.
THE CAPSULE
heads toward the water.
STRUT, THE CREW, TIMERS, OLIVIA
watch horrified, disbelieving.
THE BOAT
tips over, smashes into the water, careens
out of control, then cartwheels over and
over again, until it disintegrates before
our very eyes.
TV ANNOUNCER (VO)
Ryan's ejected—wait a minute—the
chute's not ⊨—oh, Lord, what
has happened here today...
VARIOUS ANGLES
as the parachute attached to the capsule
fails to open. Ryan, encased in the plastic
cockpit, hits the water at over 300 mi/hr.
The capsule bounces and skips across the
water like a stone on a pond. We can only
guess what's happening to Ryan inside. The
capsule speeds more than a mile before it
finally comes to a stop.
Silence. The world seems frozen in time.
And then:
— SCREENPLAY FORM— 237
Ambulance SIRENS shatter the silence, and all
hell breaks loose as people move toward the life-
less figure of Ryan Wills floating helplessly in
the water. Hold, then:
CUT TO:
Notice how each shot describes the action and how the terms on
the list are used to give it a "cinematic" look without resorting to ex-
cessive camera instruction.
Read as many screenplays as you can to familiarize yourself with
the form. There are many Web sites devoted to the screenplay. You
can download scripts free of charge at sites like simplyscripts.com;
or Drew's Script-O-Rama.com; or dailyscript.com; or do a Google
or Yahoo! search for "screenplays" and see what comes up. There are
many, many sites, and many, many screenplays you can download.
To get familiar writing in screenplay form, choose any script, open
to any page, and copy ten pages of the screenplay. This exercise is to
allow you to get used to the form. Look for the "subject" of the shot.
The more scripts you read, the more familiar with the form you'll
become.
Allow yourself some time to learn how to do it; it will probably be
uncomfortable at first, ⊮ gets easier. The more you do, the easier
it gets. When you don't have to think about what you're doing in
terms of screenplay form, it becomes second nature. Of course, the
easiest way to write in screenplay form is to get screenwriting soft-
ware like Final Draft. Check it out at www.finaldraft.com.
Once you become familiar with the form, you're ready to move
on to the next step: the ⊕.
Writing the
Screenplay
BAGBY:
"Gentlemen, today you can walk out that
door, turn right, hop on a streetcar and in
twenty-five minutes end up smack in the
Pacific Ocean. Now you can swim in it, you
can fish in it, you can sail in it—but
you can't drink it, you can't water your
lawns with it, you can't irrigate an orange
grove with it. Remember—we live next door to
the ocean but we also live on the edge of
the desert. Los Angeles is a desert commu-
nity. Beneath this building, beneath every
street, there's a desert. Without water the
dust will rise up and cover us as though
we'd never existed!"
—Chinatown
Robert Towne
"Either you bring the water to L.A.—or you bring L.A. to the water."
That's the underlying foundation of Chinatown. To weave this
⊙ through the screenplay, dramatizing it through action and
character, is just great screenwriting. Speaking to Robert Towne
about the amazing journey of writing Chinatown, however, un-
covers a story of doubt, confusion, and uncertainty. Writing a
screenplay is an amazing, mysterious phenomenon filled with joy,
frustration, sometimes even sorrow. One κ you're totally on top
of things, the next κ you're down, lost in a maze of confusion and
uncertainty. One κ it works, the next κ it doesn't; who knows
how or why. It is the creative process; it defies analysis, except to say
it is magic and it is wonder.
— WRITING THE SCREENPLAY — 239
The hardest thing about writing is knowing what to write. Take a
look back and see where we've come from. Here is the paradigm:
⊤ end
Act II Act III
Confrontation ⊡
PP II
PP I
In the ⊤, we talked about creating a subject, like three
guys stealing moon rocks from Houston's NASA facility. We broke it
down into an action and character. We talked about choosing a main
character and one or two major characters, and channeling their ac-
tion into stealing the moon rocks. We talked about determining our
⊥, our ⊤, the ⊗ Points at the end of Acts I and II.
Then we discussed building the story line with 3X5 cards, focusing
on the direction, the line of ⊧, we wish to follow.
Look at the paradigm: WE KNOW WHAT TO WRITE!
We've completed a form of preparation applicable to all writing
in general, and the screenplay in particular; it is form, structure, and
character. You are now able to select the elements of your story that
fall inside the paradigm of screenplay form and begin the journey of
writing it from ⊤ to end. In other words, you know what to
write; now all you've got to do is write it.
Whatever has been said or written about the experience of writ-
ing, or the creative process, it still boils down to one thing—writing
is your own, personal experience. Nobody else's.
There are a lot of people who contribute to the making of a
movie, but the writer is the only person who sits down and faces the
blank sheet of paper.
Writing is hard work, a κ-by-κ job, sitting in front of your
computer or notepad κ in, κ out, getting the words down on
paper. You've got to put in the time. And some days are better than
others.
Before you begin writing, you've got to find the time to write.
How many hours a κ do you need to spend writing?
240 —SCREENPLAY—
That depends on you. I work about four hours a κ, six days a
week. Stuart Beattie writes eight hours a κ, from 9 A.M. to 6 P.M.
with a one-hour break. Robert Towne writes four to five hours a
κ, six days a week. Some screenwriters work only one hour a κ;
some write in the early θ, some in the late afternoon, some
at ι. Some writers write twelve hours a κ. Other writers work
on a story in their head for months, telling it over and over again to
people until they know it completely; then they "jump in" and write
it in about two weeks. After that, they'll spend weeks polishing and
fixing it.
Most people need about two to three hours a κ to write a
screenplay. That's ideal, but sometimes not very practical. In many
of my screenwriting classes, I tell my students that if they're work-
ing full-time and cannot spend an hour or two a κ writing before
they go to work, or when they get home, they need to keep the idea
current in their minds. They constantly need to think about the
story line, the characters, and "what happens next." Sometimes I tell
them to carry the cards with them, so they can go over the material
when they're standing in line or riding on the subway, bus, or train.
Keeping a tape recorder with you when you're driving to work, on
lunch or coffee break, or on your way home, helps you to focus on
your thoughts and ideas so you can remember them. Then, before
you fall asleep at ι, listen to your ideas or lines of ⊘ and
you'll be able to keep the material fresh in your memory. When the
weekend rolls around, you can spend around two or three quality
hours on Saturday and/or Sunday working on the script.
What's the best time for you to write? Look at your daily sched-
ule. Examine your time. If you're working full-time, or caring for
home and family, your time is limited. You're going to have to find
the best time for you to write. Are you the kind of person who
works best in the θ? Or does it take you until early afternoon
to be wide awake and alert? Late at ι may be a good time. You're
going to have to experiment. Find out.
You may get up and write a few hours before you go to work; or
you might come home from work, unwind, and then write a few
hours. You may want to work at ι, say about 10 or 11 P.M., or
— WRITING THE SCREENPLAY— 241
you may go to bed early and wake up about 4 or 5 A.M. to write. One
of my students, a major studio executive, gets up at 5 each θ,
works for an hour or two, has breakfast with his family, and leaves
for work. It's hard, but you can do it. If you're a housewife and have
a family, you may want to write when everyone's gone for the κ,
either midmorning or midafternoon. You be the judge of what
time, κ or ι, you can get two to three hours alone.
And a few hours alone means a few hours alone. No telephone,
no friends for coffee, no idle chatter, no chores, no demands made
on you by husbands, wives, lovers, or children. You need two to
three hours alone, without interruption.
Writing is a κ-by-κ job—shot by shot, ⊕ by ⊕, page
by page, κ by κ. Set goals for yourself. Three pages a κ is rea-
sonable and realistic. If a screenplay is approximately 120 pages
long, and you write three pages a κ, five days a week, how long will
it take you to write a first draft?
About forty working days. If you work five days a week, that
means you can get a first draft done in about six weeks. Once you
start the writing process, you'll have days when you write ten pages,
days when you do three, and so on. Just make sure you try for three
pages a κ. Or more.
If you're married, or in a relationship, it's going to be difficult—
you need some space and private time, as well as support and en-
couragement.
Women with families can have a more difficult time than oth-
ers. Husbands and children are not always very understanding or
supportive. No matter how many times you explain that you're
"going to be writing," it doesn't help. Demands are made that are
difficult to ignore. I've had married women tell me their hus-
bands threaten to leave them unless they stop writing, and their
children turn into monsters; the domestic routine is being inter-
fered with, and none of them like it. It's tough to handle; emotions
of guilt, anger, or frustration get in the way of your need for the
time, space, and freedom to write, and if you don't watch out you
can easily become a victim of your emotions.
When you're in the writing experience, you're near your loved
242 —SCREENPLAY—
ones in body, but your mind and concentration are a thousand
miles away. Your family doesn't care or understand that your charac-
ters are in a highly charged situation; you can't break your concen-
tration to deal with the snacks, meals, medication, doctors'
appointments, laundry, and shopping that you normally do.
Don't expect to. If you're in a relationship, your loved ones will
tell you they understand and support you, but they won't—not
really. Not because they don't want to, but because they don't un-
derstand the writing experience.
Don't feel guilty about taking the time you need to write your
screenplay. If you expect your wife, husband, or lover to "get upset"
or "not understand" when you're writing, it won't bother you when
it happens. If it does. You have to be "at choice" when you're writing;
expect a tough time and it won't bother you if it happens.
A note to all husbands, wives, lovers, friends, and children: If
your wife, husband, lover, friend, or parent is writing a screenplay,
they need your love and support.
Give them the opportunity to explore their desire to write a
screenplay. During the time they're writing, anywhere from three to
six months, they're often going to be moody, explosive, easily upset,
preoccupied, and distant. Your daily routine is going to be inter-
fered with, and you're not going to like it. It might become uncom-
fortable.
Are you willing to give them the space and opportunity to write
what they want to write? Do you love them enough to support them
in their efforts even if it interferes with your life?
If the answer is no, talk about it. Work out a way so that both
sides can win, and then support each other in your communication.
Writing is a lonely, solitary job. For a person in a relationship, it be-
comes a joint experience.
Establish a writing schedule: 10:30 to noon; or 8 to 10 P.M.; or
9 P.M. to midnight. With a schedule, the "problem" of discipline be-
comes easier to handle.
Decide how many days you're going to be writing. If you're
working full-time, in school, or involved in a marriage or relation-
ship, with the proper preparation you can expect to work one or
— WRITING THE SCREENPLAY— 243
two days a week. Just keep your focus—otherwise creative energy is
lost. You've got to concentrate clearly on the script you're writing.
With your writing schedule set up, you can get down to work;
and one fine κ you will sit down to write.
What's the first thing that's going to happen?
Resistance, that's what.
After you write FADE IN: EXT. STREET—κ you'll suddenly
be seized with an incredible urge to sharpen your pencils or clean
your work area. You'll find a reason or an excuse not to write. That's
resistance.
Writing is an experiential process, a learning process involving
the acquisition of skill and coordination, like riding a bicycle, swim-
ming, dancing, or playing tennis.
Nobody learns to swim by being thrown into the water. You
learn to swim by perfecting your form, and you can only do that by
actually swimming; the more you do, the better you get.
It's the η with writing. You're going to experience some form
of resistance. It shows itself in many ways, and most of the time we
aren't even aware it's happening.
For example: When you first sit down to start writing, you may
suddenly get the urge to clean the refrigerator. Or to wash the
kitchen floor. You may want to go to the gym, change the sheets,
take a drive, eat, watch television, take a yoga class, or have sex.
Some people go out and buy a thousand dollars' worth of clothes
they don't need or want! You may get angry, impatient, and yell at
everybody and anybody for nothing in particular.
They're all forms of resistance.
One of my favorite forms of resistance is sitting down to write
and suddenly getting an idea for another screenplay—a much better
idea, an idea so unique, so original, so exciting, you wonder what
you're doing writing this screenplay. You really think about it.
You may even get two or three "better" ideas. It happens quite of-
ten; it may be a great idea, ⊮'s still a form of resistance! If it's re-
ally a good idea, it will keep. Simply write it up in a page or two, put
it in a file marked "New Projects," and file it away. If you decide
to pursue this new idea and abandon the original project, you'll
244 —SCREENPLAY—
discover the η thing happening; When you sit down to write,
you'll get another new idea, and so on and so on. It's a form of resis-
tance; a mind trip, a way of avoiding writing.
We all do it. We're masters at creating reasons and excuses not to
write; it's simply a barrier to the creative process.
So, how do you deal with it?
Simple. If you know it's going to happen, simply acknowledge it
when it does. When you're cleaning the refrigerator, sharpening
pencils, or eating, just know that's what you're doing: experiencing
resistance! It's no big thing. Don't put yourself down, feel guilty, feel
worthless, or punish yourself in any way. Just acknowledge the
resistance—then move right through to the other side. Just don't
pretend it's not happening. It is! Once you deal with your resistance,
you're ready to start writing.
The first ten pages are the most difficult. Your writing is going to
be awkward, stilted, and probably not very good. It's okay. Some
people won't be able to deal with that; they'll make a decision that
what they're writing is no good. They'll stop, righteous and justified
because they "knew they couldn't do it." "Who am I kidding?" is the
usual refrain.
Writing is a learned coordination; the more you do the easier it
gets.
At first, your ⊘'s probably not going to be very good.
Remember that ⊘ is a function of character. Let's review
the purpose of ⊘. ⊘:
(cid:129) moves the story forward;
(cid:129) reveals information about the characters—after all, they do
have a history;
(cid:129) communicates necessary facts and information to the
reader;
(cid:129) establishes character relationships, making them real,
natural, and spontaneous;
(cid:129) gives your characters depth, insight, and purpose;
(cid:129) reveals the conflicts of the story and characters;
(cid:129) reveals the emotional states of your characters; and
(cid:129) comments on the action.
— WRITING THE SCREENPLAY— 245
Your first attempts at writing ⊘ will probably be unnat-
ural, clichéd, fragmented, and strained. Writing ⊘ is like
learning to swim: You're going to flounder around at first, but the
more you do the easier it gets.
It takes anywhere from forty to fifty pages before your characters
start talking to you. And they do start talking to you. Let yourself
write shitty pages, with stilted, direct, dumb, and obvious ⊘.
Don't worry about it. Just keep writing. ⊘ can always be
cleaned up during the rewrite. "Writing is rewriting" is the ancient
adage.
Those of you who are looking for "inspiration" to guide you
won't find it. Inspiration is measured in moments, a few minutes or
hours; a screenplay depends on diligence, and is measured in weeks
and months. If it takes you a hundred days to write a screenplay,
and you're "on" for ten of those days, consider yourself lucky. Being
"on" for a hundred days, or even twenty-five days, just doesn't hap-
pen. You may hear that it does, but in truth it's the pot at the end of
the rainbow—you're chasing a dream.
"But—"you say.
But what?
Writing is a κ-by-κ job, two to three hours a κ, five days a
week, either during the κ or on weekends, three or more pages a
κ, ten pages a week. Shot by shot, ⊕ by ⊕, ⊟ by
⊟, page by page, act by act. And some days are better than
others.
When you're in the paradigm, you can't see the paradigm.
The card system is your map and your guide; the ⊗ Points
your checkpoints along the way, the "last-chance" gas station before
you hit the high desert; the ⊥, your destination. What's nice
about the card system is that you can forget it. The cards have served
their purpose.
I said in Chapter 12 that one card equals one ⊕, but when
you're writing the screenplay, that will be contradictory. You'll sud-
denly "discover" a new ⊕ that works better or that you hadn't
thought of. Use it. It will lead you to veer off the path of the cards
into a few new scenes or sequences that you hadn't even considered.
I think that's great. Do it. You'll be able to tell within a few pages
246 —SCREENPLAY —
whether it's working or not. Usually you'll finish the pages, then
won't know what to do, or where to go. Look at the next card. You'll
find you have a perfect lead-in to the next ⊕ on the cards. If it
doesn't work, all you've lost is a couple of days, but you've main-
tained your creative energy. You haven't really lost anything.
It doesn't matter if you want to drop scenes or add new ones; just
do it. Your creative mind has assimilated the cards so you can throw
out a few scenes and still be following the direction of your story.
When you're doing the cards, you're doing the cards. When
you're writing the screenplay, you're writing the screenplay. Forget a
rigid adherence to the cards. Let them guide you, but don't be a slave
to them. If you feel a spontaneous moment that gives you a better,
more fluid story, write it.
So, what are some qualities that make up good screenwriting?
Several things, perhaps the most important of which is to under-
stand that the foundation of all good dramatic writing is ⊖.
Stating it once again, all drama is ⊖; without ⊖, you have
no action; without action you have no character; without character,
you have no story. And without story, you have no screenplay.
Dramatic ⊖ can be either internal or external; stories like
The Hours, Chinatown, The Manchurian Candidate, A Place in the
Sun (⊯ Wilson and Harry Brown), Cold Mountain, and
American Beauty have both internal and external ⊖. External
⊖ is where the ⊖ is outside the characters and they face
physical (and of course, emotional) obstacles, such as in Cold
Mountain, Collateral, Apollo 13, or Jurassic Park. Creating ⊖
within the story, through the characters and events, is one of those
simple, basic "truths" of all writing, whether it be novel, play, or
screenplay.
7
So what is ⊖. If you look up the word, you'll see it involves
"opposition"; and the hub of any dramatic ⊕ is having the char-
acter or characters be in opposition to someone or something.
⊖ can be anything: a struggle, a quarrel, a battle, or a chase
⊕; fear of life, or fear of failure or success; internal or external—
any kind of confrontation or obstacle, and it really doesn't matter
whether it's emotional, physical, or mental.
⊖ must be at the very hub of your story, because it is the
— WRITING THE SCREENPLAY— 247
core of strong action and strong character. If you do not have
enough ⊖, the foundation to your writing, you'll find yourself
more often than not caught in a quagmire of dull writing.
Keep writing, κ by κ, page by page. And during the writing
process you're going to discover things about yourself you never
knew. For example, if you're writing about something that hap-
pened to you, you may reexperience some old feelings and emo-
tions. You may get "wacky" and irritable and live each κ as if you
were on an emotional roller coaster. Don't worry. Just keep writing.
You're going to move through three stages of your first-draft
screenplay.
The first stage is the "words on paper" stage. That's when you put
it all down—everything. During this stage, if you're in doubt about
writing a ⊕ or not writing it, write it. If in doubt, write. That's the
rule. If you start censoring yourself, you might wind up with an
eighty-page screenplay, and that's too short. (Comedies, however,
are usually about eighty-five to ninety pages.) You'll have to add
scenes to what is with any luck an already tight structure to fill it out
and bring it to length, and that's extremely difficult to do. It's easier
to cut scenes than add them to an already structured screenplay.
Keep moving forward in your story. If you write a ⊕ and go
back to clean it up, polish it, and "make it right," you'll find you've
dried up at about page 60, lost all your creative spark, and you
might even shelve the project. Many writers I know who've tried to
write a draft this way have failed to complete it. Any major changes
you need to make, do in the second draft.
There will be moments when you don't know how to begin a
⊕, or what to do next. You know what happens on the cards, but
not how to get into it visually. If this happens, break down the ac-
tion of your ⊕ into a ⊤, ⊦, and end. What's the
purpose of the ⊕? Where does your character come from? What
is his/her purpose in the ⊕?
Ask yourself "What happens next?" and you'll get an answer. It's
usually the first thought skittering across the back of your mind.
Grab it, and throw it down on paper. It's what I call the "creative
grab," because you've got to be quick enough to "catch it" and put it
down.
248 —SCREENPLAY —
Many times you'll try to improve that first idea to "make it bet-
ter." If your first thought is to place the ⊕ in a car driving down
the highway, and you decide to make it a walk in the country or a
walk on the beach, you'll lose a certain creative energy. Do it too
many times and your script will reflect a contrived, deliberate qual-
ity. It won't work.
There's only one rule that governs your writing—not whether
it's "good" or "bad," but does it work? Does your ⊕ or ⊟
work? If it does, keep it in, no matter what anybody says.
If it works, use it. If it doesn't, don't.
If you don't know how to get in or out of a ⊕, free-associate.
Let your mind wander; ask yourself the best way to get into the
⊕. Trust yourself and you'll find the answer.
If you created the problem, you'll be able to find a solution to it.
All you have to do is look for it.
Problems in a screenplay can always be solved. Just know that
if you've created the problem, whatever it is, you can solve it. If
you get stuck, go back to your characters; go into your charac-
ter biography and ask him/her what he or she would do in that
situation. You'll get an answer. It may take a minute, an hour, a
κ, several days, a week, but you'll get the answer—probably
when you least expect it, and in the most unusual place. Just keep
asking yourself the question "What do I need to do to solve this
problem?" Run it through your head constantly, especially be-
fore you go to sleep. If I have a problem like this I give myself
a dream assignment: "Please reveal the answer to the problem
during my dream state." It can be a very powerful tool. Give your-
self time for the answer to reveal itself to you, but trust in the
process.
Writing is the ability to ask yourself questions and get the
answers.
Sometimes you'll get into a ⊕ and not know where you're go-
ing, or what you're looking for to make it work. You know the con-
text, not the content. So you'll write the η ⊕ five different
times, from five different points of view, and out of all these at-
tempts you may find one line that gives you the key to what you're
looking for.
— WRITING THE SCREENPLAY— 249
You'll rewrite the ⊕ using that one line as your anchor
thought and eventually be able to create something dynamic and
spontaneous. You just have to find your way.
And trust yourself.
Around page 80 or 90, the ⊡ is forming and you'll dis-
cover the screenplay is literally writing itself. You're just the medium,
putting in time to finish the script. You don't have to do anything; if
you let it come through you, it writes itself.
Writing a screenplay is writing a screenplay. There are no
shortcuts.
It may take you six to eight weeks to complete your first "words
on paper" draft. Then you're ready to move into the second stage of
your first draft: taking a cold, hard, objective look at what you've
written.
This is the most mechanical and uninspiring stage of writing a
screenplay. You'll take what is perhaps a 180- to 200-page draft of
your script and reduce it to 130 or 140 pages. You'll cut out some
scenes, add new ones, rewrite others, make any changes you need to,
to get it into a workable form. It might take you about three weeks
to do this. When you've finished, you're ready to approach the third
stage of your first-draft script. This is where you see what you've
got, where the story really gets written. You'll polish it, accent it,
hone and rewrite it, trim it to length, and make it all come to life.
You're out of the paradigm now, so you can see what you've got to
do to make it better. In this stage you may rewrite a ⊕ as many as
ten times before you get it right.
There will always be one or two scenes that don't work the way
you want them to, no matter how many times you rewrite them.
You know these scenes don't work, but the reader will never know.
He/she reads for story and execution, not content. It usually takes
me about an hour to read a script, seeing it in my head rather than
reading it for prose style or content. Don't worry about the few
scenes you know don't work. Let them be.
You'll discover that the scenes you like the most, those clever,
witty, and sparkling moments of action and ⊘, might have to
be cut when you reduce the script to workable length. You'll try to
keep them in—after all, it is your best writing—but in the long run
250 —SCREENPLAY—
you've got to do what's best for your screenplay. I have a "best ⊕"
file where I put the "best" things I've ever written, things I had to cut
out to tighten the script.
You have to be ruthless in writing a screenplay. If it doesn't work,
it doesn't work. If your scenes stand out and draw attention to
themselves, they might impede the flow of action. Scenes that stand
out and work are the scenes that will be remembered. Every good
film has one or possibly two scenes that people always remember.
These scenes work within the dramatic context of the story. They
are also the trademark scenes that ε become immediately recog-
nizable.
If you don't know whether your "choice" scenes work, they prob-
ably don't. If you have to think about it, or question it, it probably
means it's not working. You'll know when a ⊕'s working. Trust
yourself.
There may be times during the screenwriting process when you
experience a sinking sensation in the pit of your stomach, when
suddenly there is a cloud of negativity and confusion sprinkled on
the waters of your creativity. And it seems to come out of nowhere.
Most writers, including myself, try to ignore the feeling, to push
it away, hide it under the carpet; yet the more we try to dispel it, to
pretend it's not there, to hover behind a false bravado, the more
we realize we're stuck, lost somewhere within a maze of our own
creation.
That's when we hit "the wall." Almost all writers, at some time or
other, experience this wall, or block, and try to force their way
through it. Sometimes it works, and sometimes it doesn't.
Most of the time it doesn't. And no matter where you are in the
screenwriting process, the first "words on paper" draft or the
rewrite, it doesn't take much to be overwhelmed by the writing
process. We handle this kind of problem in many different ways, of
course, like suddenly finding more "important" things to do, like
cleaning the kitchen, going to the market, washing the dishes, or go-
ing to the movies. Whatever.
After all, some parts of the story are more difficult than others.
And some scenes need more work than others. After a few days of
— WRITING THE SCREENPLAY— 251
struggling with these particular pages, struggling with some of
these thoughts and feelings, you may notice doubts about your abil-
ities as a writer ⊤ to surface. You may find yourself thinking
too much, asking yourself questions like: What am I going to do?
How am I going to get back on track? You'll question yourself, your
talent, your ability to get the job done.
Then one θ you'll wake up and suddenly recognize that a
heavy haze of uncertainty is hanging around your neck, and the
feeling that's been tugging at you for the last few days finally erupts
like a volcano and you know you really don't know what you are do-
ing. You finally admit that you don't know how to help yourself or
where to go or what to do; the only thing that makes any sense at all
is surrendering to the state you are in—dazed, lost, and confused.
Welcome to the world of screenwriting.
If you are writing a story and do not know what emotional
forces are working on your character, it is very easy to "run up
against the wall" and keep "going around in circles," ultimately
falling into that well known as writer's block.
Here's the way it usually works: You're totally immersed in the
κ-to-κ process of screenwriting, but there may be one ⊕ or
⊟ that does not work as well as it should, and you might be-
gin to wonder why it's not working. Still, it's just a random thought
and you probably don't pay much attention to it. But you might be-
come aware of a subtle shift occurring within yourself, maybe some
doubts about why this ⊕ or ⊟ is failing to come together.
Then you might find that you're talking to yourself, having a little
conversation about "the Problem." The first thing that usually hap-
pens is you start questioning yourself. "If I weren't so stupid, I could
do this," you might think, and the more you wrestle with the prob-
lem, the more your image as a screenwriter begins to erode, and
then you start making disparaging comments about yourself and
your ability. That's when you begin sliding into "the pit," and soon
the entire litany of negative judgments descends upon you.
"I knew I should have stayed away from this subject," you might
think, or "I'm no good at writing." Soon you'll begin to expand and
enlarge on your insecurities, thinking, "I don't know whether I
252 —SCREENPLAY —
should be writing this script," or "Maybe I just don't have the talent
to do this," or "Maybe I should just find a partner and write it with
someone else." It goes on and on.
But underneath all these thoughts, comments, or judgments
you're making is the common thread that somehow it's all "your
fault." If you could do it, you would, and if you can't, it's because
you don't have the talent or ability to do it. In short, we turn it in-
side and blame ourselves.
No wonder it's called writer's block.
If you're in this dilemma, and this veil of doubt and negativity is
smothering your creative ⊞, then it's time to give the critic a
⊞. That means giving that judgmental, critical, and negative
⊞ that's roaming around inside your head the opportunity to
speak his or her mind.
Remember that this is one of those common problems that
strike fear in the hearts of screenwriters everywhere. I recall a
screenwriting student coming into class one ι with a strange
and somewhat tortured look on her face. When I asked her what
was wrong, her eyes welled up with tears and she became very seri-
ous, and said, "I don't know where I'm going. I'm totally lost, I'm
confused, and my pages stink. All that's happening is talk, talk, talk.
I keep going around in circles, and I don't know what to do. I'm so
upset I could cry."
It's a universal problem. How you get out of it varies from per-
son to person, script to script, but the first thing to do is to admit
you have a problem and that it's not going to go away until you deal
with it, confront it head-on. That's just one of the truths of life.
In my student's case she was so close to the material she couldn't
see it anymore, so the first thing I wanted her to do was just stop writ-
ing. When you reach this kind of crisis point, you're so overwhelmed
and frustrated that you have to regroup. Just stop writing. Put down
your pen and paper, shut off your computer or tape recorder, how-
ever you're working, and spend some time contemplating your story:
What is the story about? What is the dramatic need of your main
character? How are you going to resolve the story line? The answers
to these questions are the key to getting back on track.
First, go to your screenplay pages and take out a separate piece of
— WRITING THE SCREENPLAY— 253
paper and label it The Critic's Page. As you start writing the script,
every time you become aware of a negative comment, thought, or
judgment, just write it down on The Critic's Page. Number the com-
ments, label them, just as if you were keeping a journal or making a
shopping list. You might become aware of such comments as "These
pages are terrible," or "I don't really know what I'm doing," or "This
isn't working," or "Maybe somebody else should finish it for me";
maybe "These characters all sound the η" and it's apparent that
"I've lost my vision," and so on. Whatever your thoughts and com-
ments are about your pages, just write them down on The Critic's
Page.
The first κ you're doing The Critic's Page, you may write two
pages of screenplay and four pages of critical comments. On the
second κ maybe you'll write three pages of screenplay and two or
more pages on The Critic's Page. The third κ maybe you'll do four
or five pages of screenplay and a couple of pages of the critic.
At this point, stop writing. The next κ, take the critic's pages,
put them in order, and read them: all your negative comments for
κ one, κ two, κ three. As you think about these comments,
mull them over in your mind. As you look these pages over, you'll
discover something very interesting: The critic always says the η
thing. It doesn't matter what kind of ⊕ it is, or who the charac-
ters are, or what you write; whether it's the pages from κ one, two,
or three, whether it's a ⊘ ⊕ or an action ⊕, the critic
always says the η thing—uses the η words, the η phrases,
the η expressions. It's all the η. Your pages are no good; they
stink. No matter what you write, this is what your critic is telling
you: The pages are no good; you should be doing something else.
That's the nature of the mind: to judge, to criticize, to evaluate.
The mind can be either our best friend or our worst enemy. It's so
easy to get plugged into our judgments and evaluations of what's
right or wrong, good or bad.
Now, it could be that what the critic says is accurate. Maybe the
pages are terrible, the characters are thin and one-dimensional, and
you are going around in circles. So what? Confusion is the first step
toward clarity. What you try that doesn't work will always show you
what does work. As you struggle through your problem area, just
254 —SCREENPLAY—
get something down on paper; just write lousy pages. You'll always
be able to go back and make them better. That's the process all writ-
ers go through. So what if you've "hit a wall" and are going around
in circles, dazed, lost, and confused.
Give the critic a ⊞. If you don't give the critic a ⊞, it'll turn
inside and begin to fester, getting worse and worse until it bursts. It's
easy to let yourself become your own victim.
Until you become aware of the critic's ⊞ running around in
the back of your mind, you're going to become a victim of that
⊞. Recognizing and acknowledging that ⊞ is the first step
through the block; it's not necessary to act upon, or make a decision
about, the judgments and evaluations the critic makes, or to deter-
mine whether the critic is right or not. No matter what stage you are
at in the writing process, don't get too serious about what the critic
tells you. One of the things we have to accept is that we always get
lost within the maze of our own creations. And we are our own
worst critics.
Writer's block is a powerful enemy and can hammer you into
submission; the mere thought of writing will turn you off, and be-
cause you're not writing you'll feel guilty, so whenever you sit down
to write you'll suddenly feel this blanket of heaviness settle over
your head, causing you to lose all objectivity and fall into despair.
Writer's block. It happens all the time. To everybody.
The difference is how you deal with it. How you see it.
There are two different ways to look at this "problem." One is to
see your dilemma as a real problem, a real block, something to
"overcome" or "break through," a physical and emotional obstacle
that is locking you into a creative straitjacket.
That's one way of looking at it.
But there's another way. And that is to see the ordeal as part of
the writer's experience. After all, it's universal, everybody goes
through it; it's nothing new or unusual. If you recognize and ac-
knowledge that, you've reached a creative crossroads. The realiza-
tion becomes a creative guide to another level of your screenwriting
craft. If you can look at it as an opportunity, you will find a way to
strengthen and broaden your ability to create characters and story.
— WRITING THE SCREENPLAY— 255
You'll see that maybe you need to go deeper into your story and
strive for another level of richness, full of texture and dimension.
"A man's reach should exceed his grasp," the poet Robert
Browning wrote.
If you understand that being challenged by writer's block, being
dazed, lost, and confused, is only a symptom, this "problem" be-
comes an opportunity to test yourself. And isn't that what life is all
about—putting yourself on the line in a situation where you test
yourself to rise to another level? It's simply an evolutionary step
along the path of the screenwriting process.
If you accept this point of view, it means you're going to have to
dig deeper into your material; you're going to have to stop writing,
go back into your character's life and action, and define and clarify
different elements of your character's life. You're going to have to go
back and do new character biographies; to define or redefine the
characters and their relationships to each other, which are, after all,
the hub of your story line.
If you're working on a particular ⊕, for example, you may
need to rewrite it, or change the points of view of your characters;
you may need to change locations, or create new actions, episodes,
or events for your character. Sometimes you may have to restruc-
ture the action in a particular ⊕ or ⊟ by restructuring
the entire act!
Keep writing, κ by κ, page by page. The more you do the eas-
ier it gets. When you're almost finished, perhaps ten or fifteen pages
from the end, you might find you're "holding on." You might spend
four days writing one ⊕ or one page, and you'll feel tired and
listless. It's a natural phenomenon; you simply don't want to finish
it, to complete it.
Let it go. Just be aware that you're holding on, then let it go.
One κ you'll write "Fade Out," or "The End"—and you'll be done,
/twill be done.
The art of screenwriting is finding places where silence works
better than words. Recently, one of my students told me that after he
had completed writing a ⊕, the thought occurred to him to go
back and take another look at it. Something was bothering him
256 —SCREENPLAY-
about it and he didn't know what it was. So he read and reread the
⊕, and suddenly understood how he could make it work more
effectively with just two lines of ⊘! That's good screenwriting.
You don't need pages and pages of ⊘ to set up, explain, or
move your story forward; just a few lines will do, if you enter the
⊕ at the right point.
And when you've completed the draft, it's a time of celebration
and relief. When it's over, you're going to experience all kinds of
emotional reactions. First, there's satisfaction and relief. A few days
ε, you'll be down, depressed, and won't know what to do with
your time. You may sleep a lot. You've got no energy. This is what I
call the "postpartum blues" period. It's like giving birth to a baby:
You've been working on something for a substantial period of time.
It's been a part of you. It's gotten you up in the θ and kept
you awake at ι. Now it's over. It's natural to be down and de-
pressed. The end of one thing is always the ⊤ of something
else. Endings and beginnings, right?
It's all part of the experience of writing the screenplay.
Adoptation
NARRATOR:
"The first time he saw Seabiscuit, the colt
was walking through the fog at five in the
θ. Smith would say ε that the
horse looked right through him: as if to say
'What the hell are you looking at? Who do
you think you are?' ... He was a small horse
[so] they made him a training partner to
'better' horses, forcing him to lose head to
head duels to boost the confidence of the
other animal . . . When they finally did race
him, he did just what they had trained him
to do ... He lost."
Seabiscuit
Gary Ross
The story of Seabiscuit is a unique and inspirational one, not only
for what the horse accomplished but for the way in which he ac-
complished it. During the second half of the 1930s, Seabiscuit be-
came a cultural icon throughout the length and breath of the land.
He was universally praised, his exploits and appeal so legendary that
the very name "Seabiscuit" seemed to transcend the sport itself.
But this was more than just a story of a physically and spiritually
broken horse. With his extraordinary rise to fame, he became a
symbol of hope; here was a story of three men and a horse striving
for some kind of belief and faith to hold on to in the midst of
the Great Depression. Seabiscuit became the object of the nation's
faith, someone to root for, something we could believe in. As a
horse, he was not much to look at—he was small and had short
legs—but he was blessed with an indomitable will that remained
258 —SCREENPLAY—
intact even after he spent two entire seasons floundering in the low-
est ranks of horse racing.
That all changed when the horse came under the forcefully gen-
tle and patient leadership of Tom Smith, a man who personified the
freedom of the frontier and preferred the company of horses to that
of men. Red Pollard, Seabiscuit's jockey, had been abandoned by his
parents as a boy, and for years was a failing jockey who barely sur-
vived. Charles Howard was a self-made millionaire who lost the
only thing he really loved and lived for, his young son.
Taken together, these three men and a horse were emotionally
shattered in their search for unity and wholeness. When they joined
together, they fulfilled a need in one another: Charles Howard be-
came the father figure, Tom Smith the teacher, Red Pollard the
jockey, the son, the doer; they became a team, a family, sharing their
skills to forge the legend known the world over as Seabiscuit. As Red
says at the end of the movie: "You know, everybody thinks we found
this broken-down horse and fixed him, but we didn't __He fixed
us. Every one one of us. And, I guess in a way, we kind of fixed each
other too."
Gary Ross adapted Seabiscuit from a best-selling book by Laura
Hillenbrand and turned it into an original screenplay based on the
life and exploits of the legendary racehorse. As a screenplay adapted
from a book, it honored the original source material both in terms
of spirit and integrity. It is a moving, inspirational cinematic expe-
rience that captures the essence of the legendary horse. When I
first read the book I loved it—it was an exciting, informative
experience—and I wondered if Gary Ross, the writer-director,
would be able to take such broad, sweeping historical events and
fuse them into a poignant, gripping story line.
What makes this adapted screenplay so good? And what's the
best way to go about adapting a novel, play, magazine article, or
newspaper story into a screenplay?
There are many ways, of course. When you adapt a novel or any
source material into a screenplay, you must consider your work an
original screenplay based on other material. You can't adapt a novel
literally and have it work, as Francis Ford Coppola learned when he
adapted F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby. Coppola—the noted
— ADAPTATION— 259
filmmaker of The Conversation, The Godfather, and Apocalypse Now,
among many other great works—is one of the most arresting and
dynamic writer-directors in Hollywood. In adapting The Great
Gatsby he wrote a screenplay that is absolutely faithful to the novel.
The result is a visually magnificent failure; dramatically, it didn't
work at all.
Adaptation is both a skill and a challenge. The verb to adapt
means "to transpose from one medium to another." Adaptation is
defined as the ability "to make fit or suitable by changing, or
adjusting"—modifying something to create a change in structure,
function, and form. It only starts with the novel, book, play, article,
or song. That is the source material, the starting point—nothing
more. It is a singular art. Adapting an existing work, whether a
novel, play, magazine article, newspaper story, or biography into a
medium such as a screenplay is difficult, to say the least. Just ask
Charlie Kaufman, who wrote Adaptation, a film that chronicles the
struggle of a screenwriter trying to adapt a novel about orchids into
some kind of cinematic experience. Not many can do adaptations
well. Each form is so different from any other that any adaptation
has to be approached as an original screenplay.
As mentioned earlier, in a novel the dramatic action of the story,
the ⊚ line, is usually told through the eyes of the main char-
acter; the reader knows his/her thoughts, feelings, memories, hopes,
and fears. There may be chapters written from other characters'
points of view, but the dramatic action usually occurs inside the
main character's head, within the mindscape of dramatic action.
The screenplay, of course, is different; it is a story told with pic-
tures, in ⊘ and description, and placed within the context of
dramatic structure. Film, when you get right down to it, is behavior.
Words and pictures; apples and oranges.
Every screenwriter approaches the craft of adaptation differ-
ently. Alvin Sargent, the Academy Award-winning screenwriter of
Ordinary People, Spider-Man 2, and Julia, among other films, reads
the source material as many times as it takes to "make it his own,"
until it's his story. Then he writes individual scenes in a random
fashion, lays them all together on the floor, and shapes a story line
out of those individual scenes.
260 —SCREENPLAY —
Ted Tally, the Academy Award-winning screenwriter of The
Silence of the Lambs and The Juror, says he "breaks down the book
⊕ by ⊕. I try to establish the structural line of events; this
event happens, then this event, then this and this happens. What's
important from the book is what sticks in your mind. So I put those
scenes on cards, one by one, just getting the story down, concentrat-
ing on the main needs of the adaptation."
The first thing Tally does is determine who the story is about,
and anything that does not serve the main character needs to be cut.
When you're adapting a book that may be 350 or more pages into a
screenplay that's only 120 pages, you have to be ruthless, yet main-
tain the integrity of the source material. Which is what Gary Ross
did in Seabiscuit. Not only did he have to capture the tone and tem-
per of the times, but he wove action that occurred over many years
into a two-hour-plus movie, yet still remained true to the source
material. And within the historical context of the times, he had to
set up the lives of three men, as well as that of Seabiscuit, then struc-
ture their journey as they overcame obstacle after obstacle to achieve
their success on both a personal and professional level.
It's a general rule that if you're adapting a book or an article to fit
the needs of a screenplay, you may have to shift, omit, or add scenes
in order to follow the main story line.
"The last thing you're concerned with," Tally says, "is invention
for its own sake. If it ain't broke, don't fix it." Meaning that if scenes
work within the context of the screenplay, don't change them. If you
can't use scenes in the book, you may have to create new ones to
make the film work on a visual level, not a literary one. Remember
that when you're deliberately breaking a book apart in order to
make it into a screenplay, you're going to have to invent new scenes,
or invent a way to meld two or three scenes from the novel into one
⊕ in the screenplay. And that means you're going to have to in-
vent transitions to keep the action moving forward. And then you're
going to have to invent ⊘ for those transitions because you've
sacrificed so much information, the story could be confusing.
"You can't be a slave to the book," Tally continues. What he
means is that you want the ⊚ flow in your head, but you
don't want it oppressing you. Often during the writing process
— ADAPTATION— 261
you'll reference your own story outline more than the novel. And
once you complete your first draft, you'll have no reference to the
published novel at all. The screenplay becomes only about itself. An
adaptation starts to develop its own logic and meaning once you're
writing the screenplay.
The hub of adaptation is finding a balance between the charac-
ters and the situation, yet keeping the integrity of the story. If you
want to see a great adaptation, read Seabiscuit, then watch the
movie, and notice the skill with which Gary Ross captured the in-
tegrity and inspiration of the source material.
Brian Helgeland adapted Dennis Lehane's novel Mystic River for
Clint Eastwood, and he talks about some of the challenges he had
adapting the book into a screenplay. He read the book first: "Once.
To get a sense of it. Then I read it another two or three times. I make
all the notes in the book itself. Highlight things. Write in the mar-
gins. Cross pages out that I don't need. Finally, I start sticking pieces
of paper in there and break it down. Once I have the essence of what
it's all about, I type an outline. That's when I'll start to add scenes or
combine them. Move things around.
"Part of the trick of adaptation is trying to find a workable way
of externalizing the book's interior monologues. Sometimes it came
down to taking the thoughts and turning them into ⊘."
This is one of the common challenges writers have when they
approach an adaptation. I talked with Stuart Beattie, the gifted
young writer of Collateral, after he had just completed adapting a
novel into a screenplay.
I asked how he approached the adaptation. The film, adapted
from the novel Derailed by James Siegel, is "a thriller novel," he be-
gan, "about an ordinary guy who has an affair and his wife gets in-
credibly derailed as a result of this one moment of weakness. So,
there's a morality aspect to it, very much a Hitchcockian kind of
everyday man who is put into an extraordinary circumstance. The
character keeps trying to get out of it, but just gets deeper and
deeper into the situation.
"When I first read the book I was literally on the edge of my
seat," he continued. "It was a four-hundred-page book and about
three hundred pages into it I knew it would make a great film. Then
262 —SCREENPLAY—
this incredible hundred-eighty-degree ⊗ twist occurs. You know,
it's one of those 'don't do' rules of screenwriting. You just 'don't do'
things like putting in an unexpected ⊗ twist at the end.
"Even though I had to get rid of the last third of the book," he
said, "the drama is in the family. The girl has type one diabetes. The
mother and father are saving up for this new drug that's coming out
which would basically save her life. She has a dialysis machine every
ι that's strung out in the second mortgage payments. They're
all in stress. Not connecting anymore. Wrapped up in the pain of
the dilemma. That kind of hellhole. So it sets up the situation of
him walking out of the marriage. That's basically the set-up. It starts
out like it's going to be a family drama, then twists around violently
at the end of the Act I, then twists around again and again."
I asked how many times he read the material before he be-
gan writing the screenplay. "Two or three times," he told me. "The
first time through is the most important, because that's the time
you're getting it. I'll write 'good ⊕, good line, good moment,
or something like this could be an ⊨ ⊕,' that kind of
stuff, not knowing where everything's going. Then you've got to
let it go and make the movie out of it. And then, a few weeks be-
fore shooting, we go back to the book and see if there's anything
that's been dropped along the way: a line, a moment, something
like that.
"I don't do a very detailed outline after I read the book two or
three times. I do a ⊜ sheet. Around a two- or three-page ⊜
sheet. Like, 'the ⊕ in the car, the ⊕ in the elevator, the ⊕
in the house, the ⊕ at the doctor's, and so on.' In a screenplay, I'll
normally do a ten-page outline. And usually I try to get that down
to a five-page outline. Getting it down to five pages, I've got Act I on
page one, Act III on page five ... that just works for me."
When you approach a historical adaptation, like Cold Mountain,
Charles Frazier's National Book Award-winning novel about the
physical and spiritual survival of two lovers at the end of the Civil
War, there are other challenges. Anthony Minghella approached the
adaptation with the underlying motif of a journey home. It has the
main characters, a dramatic and emotional journey, a dramatic
purpose, a series of obstacles, a woman waiting with hope and
— ADAPTATION— 263
patience, and a place that resides in Inman's heart that represents
Cold Mountain. In a time when brothers were fighting brothers and
lovers were torn from each other's arms, Cold Mountain becomes a
symbol of love, a spiritual place that resides within the heart. It rep-
resents not only the physical journey that Inman, the Rebel soldier,
endures to return home, but his spiritual journey as well. Survival is
uncertain, the wages of war affecting all who walk its path. The en-
tire story is about the return from war and the effects of war's bru-
tality and chaos on the world away from the battlefield.
Minghella departed from the novel, shortening and condensing
it, yet kept the obstacles of the journey intact. In the novel, Inman,
after enduring test after test of valor, courage, and loyalty, returns
home to Cold Mountain and finds his love. And a single ι be-
comes all the time they have together.
There may be times in your adaptation that you have to add new
characters, drop others, create new incidents or events, perhaps al-
ter the entire structure of the book. In Julia, Alvin Sargent created
an entire movie out of an episode from Pentimento by Lillian
Hellman. In The English Patient, the entire movie was conceived
from what seems to be only a few paragraphs in the novel. And then
Anthony Minghella did some twenty-seven rewrites of the material
on paper and in the editing room, shaping it into what became the
final film.
The source material and the screenplay are usually two different
⊚ forms; think apples and oranges. When you adapt a novel,
play, article, or even a song into a screenplay, you are changing one
form into another. You are writing a screenplay based on other mate-
rial. In essence, however, you are writing an original screenplay.
And you have to approach it that way.
This is what Peter Jackson, Fran Walsh, and Philippa Boyens had
to deal with in Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers. The source mater-
ial for The Two Towers is Volume Two of the Trilogy. Books III and
IV comprise The Two Towers.
The Two Towers novel opens with Book III, the death of
Boromir, which was the dramatic ⊝ at the end of the first film,
The Fellowship of the Ring. In the next few chapters, we read how
Aragorn and the others ride to Rohan, then follow the adventures of
* »-
264 —SCREENPLAY —
Merry and Pippin, who manage to escape the Ores, leading to their
fateful meeting with Treebeard. Then Gandalf returns as Gandalf
the White. Then we move to Rohan, where Aragorn and the Fellow-
ship convince King Théoden to retreat to Helms Deep, and it's
there, in Chapter 7 of Book III of The Two Towers, halfway through
the book, that the battle rages between the Ores and the Fellowhip
at Helms Deep. The next four chapters deal with the continuation
of the journey. At the end of Book III, Gandalf and Pippin race to
Minas Tirith.
Chapter I of Book IV begins as we pick up the action of Frodo,
Sam, and Gollum on their journey to Mordor, and then each new
chapter follows them through their obstacles and adventures on
their way to Mount Doom.
In approaching this book, it would not be very effective, at least
dramatically, to structure the screenplay based on the progression
of events as they occur in Books III and IV. You would have two dif-
ferent films: one about the Fellowship, the other about Frodo, Sam,
and Gollum. In film, you have to keep the story moving forward,
and the best way to do that is by intercutting the events between the
main characters, then weaving the ⊚ line of action through
the story, like weaving a particular thread through the canvas of a
tapestry; the story line always has to keep moving.
"We had the event story, which we grappled with," Philippa
Boyens said, "and the ongoing process of whose story we were fol-
lowing at any one time, and the emotional through line of the story,
of characters and how they were woven together and connected to
the whole—all of the things that every screenwriter grapples with."
"The ring is a metaphor for the machine, for the way that a piece
of metal controls and dictates what you do," Peter Jackson says. "A
lot of Lord of the Rings is about protecting your freedom and the
fight against enslavement __Our first and foremost responsibility
was as filmmakers, so we didn't set out with a feeling that we had to
be faithful to everything that Tolkien wrote__ The central story
line is obviously the story of a hobbit who comes into possession of
this very dangerous ring, which he learns has to be destroyed, so he
has to go on this journey to destroy it. That's the spine of The Lord
of the Rings, and we were fairly ruthless right at the ⊤ with
— ADAPTATION— 265
any characters or any events that didn't either directly or indirectly
serve that spine."
When the writers approached the material to adapt The Two
Towers into the screenplay, they took the events as they occurred in
the novel and crafted them into a cohesive story line, intercutting
Frodo, Sam, and the Gollum's story with Aragorn, the Fellowship,
and Merry and Pippin's journey with Treebeard. Then they took the
battle at Helms Deep that occurs in Chapter 7 of Book III, and used
this as the exciting and rousing ⊝ to end the film. In many ways
I think adapting this book into the screenplay of Two Towers was a
major feat in creative storytelling.
There are times, however, when an adaptation takes on its own
life. Perhaps the most unique example of this is the script written by
John Huston for The Maltese Falcon. Huston had recently finished
adapting the script of High Sierra, with Humphrey Bogart and Ida
Lupino, from the book by W. R. Burnett. The film was very success-
ful, and Huston was given the opportunity to write and direct his
first feature. He decided to remake The Maltese Falcon, by Dashiell
Hammett. The Sam Spade detective story had been filmed twice be-
fore by Warner Bros., once as a comedy in 1931 with Ricardo Cortez
and Bebe Daniels, and again in 1936 as Satan Met a Lady, with
Warren William and Bette Davis. Both films failed.
Huston liked the feel of the book. He thought he could capture
its integrity on film, making it a hard-boiled, gritty detective story
in tune with Hammett's style. Just before he left on a vacation, he
gave the book to his secretary and told her to go through it, break-
ing down the written ⊚ into screenplay form, labeling each
⊕ as either interior or exterior, and describing the basic action
using ⊘ from the book. Then he left for Mexico.
While he was away, the secretary's notes somehow found their
way into the hands of Jack L. Warner. "I love it. You've really cap-
tured the flavor of this book," he told the startled writer/director.
"Shoot it just as it is—with my blessing!"
Huston did just that, and the result is an American film classic.
If you're adapting historical events into a screenplay, the term
"based on a true story" invokes its own series of challenges.
In All the President's Men, adapted by William Goldman from
266 —SCREENPLAY—
the book by Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward (about Watergate,
lest we forget), there were several dramatic choices that had to be
made immediately. In an interview, Goldman says it was a difficult
adaptation. Why? Because "I had to approach very complicated ma-
terial in a simple way without making it seem simple-minded. I had
to make a story where there wasn't one. It was always a question of
trying to figure out what the legitimate story was.
"For example, the movie ends halfway through the book. We
made a decision to end it there, on the Haldeman mistake, rather
than show Woodward and Bernstein going on to their greater glory.
The audience already knew they had been proven right and gone on
and gotten rich and famous and were the media darlings. To try and
end All the President's Men on an upbeat note would have been a
mistake. So we ended it there, on the Haldeman mistake, a little
more than halfway through the book. The most important thing
about the screenplay was setting up the structure. I had to make
sure we found out what we wanted to find out when we wanted to
find it out. If the audience is confused, we've lost them."
Goldman opens with the break-in at the Watergate Complex, a
taut, suspenseful ⊟, and after the capture of the men respon-
sible, he introduces Woodward (Robert Redford) at the preliminary
hearing. He sees the high-class attorney in the courtroom, becomes
suspicious, then involved. When Bernstein (Dustin Hoffman) joins
him on the story (⊗ Point 1), they succeed in unraveling the
thread of mystery and intrigue that leads to the downfall of the
President of the United States.
When he wrote Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Goldman
stated, "Western research is dull, because most of it's inaccurate.
The writers that write Westerns are in the business of perpetuating
myths that are false to begin with. It's hard to find out what really
happened."
Goldman spent eight years researching Butch Cassidy, and occa-
sionally he would find "a book or some articles or a piece about
Butch. There was nothing about Sundance; he was an unknown fig-
ure until he went to South America with Butch."
Goldman found it necessary to distort history to get Butch and
Sundance to leave the country and go to South America. These two
— ADAPTATION— 267
outlaws were the last of their breed. Times were changing, and the
Western outlaw could no longer pull the η kind of jobs he'd
been doing since the end of the Civil War.
"In the movie," Goldman says, "Butch and Sundance rob some
trains, then a superposse forms and chases them relentlessly. They
jump off a cliff when they find out they can't lose them, and go to
South America. But in real life, when Butch Cassidy heard about the
superposse, he took off. He just left. He knew it was the end; he
couldn't ⊜ them...
"I felt I had to justify why my hero leaves and runs away, so I
tried to make the superposse as implacable as I could so the audi-
ence would be rooting for them to get the hell out of there.
"Most of the movie was made up. I used certain facts. They did
rob a couple of trains, they did take too much dynamite and blow
the car to pieces, the η guy Woodcock was on both trains, they
did go to New York, they did go to South America, they did die in a
shoot-out in Bolivia. Other than that, it's all bits and pieces, all
made up."
"History," as T. S. Eliot once observed, "is but a contrived corri-
dor." If you are writing a historical screenplay, you do not have to be
accurate about the decisions or emotions of the people involved;
but you do have to honor the historical events and the results of
those events.
Adapting a sequel poses another kind of creative challenge. "If it
works well," the old Hollywood adage goes, "do it again." Films like
the Rocky series, Lethal Weapon, Die Hard, Aliens, Shrek, and the
Terminator films all pose individual problems.
For my book Four Screenplays, I had the opportunity of talking
with James Cameron about Terminator 2: Judgment κ and the
challenge of writing a sequel to the very popular Terminator.
Cameron went on to do True Lies and Titanic, the most successful
film of all time, and is now exploring the vast terrain of documen-
taries as well as new feature projects. When I asked him how he ap-
proached writing the Terminator sequel, he told me it had to be
conceived as an original screenplay based on other material. "From
a writing standpoint," he said, "the things that interested me the
most were the characters. The tricky part was having it all make
268 —SCREENPLAY —
sense to a member of the audience who didn't remember or hadn't
seen the first Terminator. Basically, I had a character popping onto
the screen in a certain way, and therefore had to create a backstory
for that character. I told myself I had to write the script just like
there had never been a first film. The sequel had to be a story about
someone who encountered something nobody else believes, like
the ⊨ ⊕ of Invasion of the Body Snatchers, where Kevin
McCarthy swears he's seen something shocking, and nobody be-
lieves him; then he starts telling the story.
"In Terminator 2, the first time we meet Sarah, she's locked up in
a mental institution, but the real question is, Is she crazy? Has the
past ordeal made her nuts? I wanted to push her character very far.
"I knew the 'bad guy being the hero' could get me into some
pretty dangerous territory," he said, "both morally and ethically. I
thought there must be a way to deflect this image of bad guy as hero,
and use what's great about the character."
The dramatic need of the Terminator is to terminate, to kill any-
body or anything that gets in his way. Because he is a cyborg, a com-
puter, he cannot change his nature; only a human or another robot
can change the program. So to change the bad guy into a good guy
requires changing the dramatic situation, the circumstances sur-
rounding the action.
"The key was the kid," Cameron explained. "Because it's never
really explained why John Connor has such a strong moral tem-
plate. For me, John was pushed by the situation when he sees the
Terminator almost shoot the guy in the parking lot. I think every-
body invents their own moral code for themselves, and it usually
happens in your teens based on what you've been taught, what
you've seen in the world, what you've read, and your own inherent
makeup.
"John Connor intuitively knows what's right but can't articulate
it," Cameron continued. "John says, 'You can't go around killing
people,' and the Terminator says, 'Why not?' And the kid can't an-
swer the question. He gets into a kind of ethical, philosophical ques-
tion that could go on and on. But all he says is 'You just can't.'
"What is it that makes us human?" Cameron asks. "Part of what
makes us human is our moral code. But what is it that distinguishes
— ADAPTATION— 269
us from a hypothetical machine that looks and acts like a human
being but is not?"
So Cameron changed the context of the sequel to make an emo-
tional shift; he turned a killing machine into the protector of young
John Connor, the future leader of the rebels. Because he's now the
"protector," he must obey the boy's command that it's not "right" to
kill anybody. Why it's not right is something the Terminator has to
figure out on his own. Basically, the Tin Man gets a heart. It works
totally within the context of the sequel and is one of the things that
make Terminator 2: Judgment κ so successful.
What about adapting a play into a screenplay? η principles.
It's a different form, ⊮'s got to be approached in the η man-
ner. There is the proscenium arch, where the stage, the background,
the sets, are forever fixed within the restrictions of that arch. The
audience becomes the "fourth wall," and during the performance
we eavesdrop on the characters and their situation. We hear their
thoughts, feelings, and emotions; we hearthe ⊚ thrust of the
story line. But the real action of the play occurs in the words the
characters speak, through the language of dramatic action. Talking
heads.
There was a time in Shakespeare's career when he cursed the re-
strictions of the stage. In Henry V, he lamented the stage as "an un-
worthy scaffold" and "this wooden O." He begged the audience to
"eke out the performance with your mind." He knew the stage
couldn't begin to capture the vast spectacle of two armies stationed
against an empty sky on the rolling plains of England. Only when
he completed Hamlet did he transcend the limitations of the stage
and create great stage art.
In order to adapt a play into a screenplay, you've got to visualize
some of the events that are referred to or spoken about. A play deals
with language and dramatic ⊘. In A Streetcar Named Desire
or Cat on a Hot Tin Roof by Tennessee Williams, or Arthur Miller's
Death of a Salesman, or Eugene O'Neill's Long κ's Journey into
ι, the action takes place onstage, in sets, the actors talking to
themselves or each other. Take a look at any play, whether it's a play
by Sam Shepard, like Curse of the Starving Class, or Edward Albee's
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? or any one of Ibsen's masterpieces.
270 —SCREENPLAY—
Because the action of a play is expressed through the spoken
word, you've got to open it up visually. You might have to add scenes
or ⊘ that are only referred to in the text, then structure, de-
sign, and write them in such a way that they lead you into the main
scenes that occur on stage. Search the ⊘ for ways to expand
the action visually.
Arthur Miller's Death of a Salesman offers a good example of
taking ⊘ from a play and using it as an opportunity to see
an incident as it happens. There is a ⊕ in which Willy Loman
approaches his boss, the son of the man he has worked for for nearly
thirty-five years. His "American dream" now shattered and in
pieces, Willy has come to ask the man if he can give up the road, lit-
erally his way of life, and work in the main office. But Willy Loman
is a salesman, and he doesn't know anything else.
Willy asks Howard, the son, for a job on the floor. First he
asks for $65 a week, then he drops his request to $50 a week, and
then, in a final humiliation, he is literally forced to beg for $40 a
week. But this "is a business, kid, and everybody's gotta pull his own
weight," Willy is told, and Willy Loman's sales figures have not been
the best lately. Willy responds by retreating into his memory, telling
Howard what drew him to become a salesman. "When I was a
boy... eighteen, nineteen," he says, "I was already on the road. And
there was a question in my mind as to whether selling had a future
for me...."
He pauses for a long moment, then continues. "[That's when] I
met a salesman in the Parker House __His name was Dave
Singleman. And he was eighty-four years old, and he'd drummed
merchandise in thirty-one states. And old Dave, he'd go up to his
room, y' understand, put on his green velvet slippers—I'll never
forget—and pick up his phone and call the buyers, and without ever
leaving his room, at the age of eighty-four, he made his living. And
when I saw that, I realized that selling was the greatest career a man
could want. 'Cause what could be more satisfying than to be able to
go, at the age of eighty-four, into twenty or thirty different cities,
and pick up a phone, and be remembered and loved and helped by
so many different people? Do you know? when he died—and by the
— ADAPTATION— 271
way he died the death of a salesman, in his green velvet slippers in
the smoker of the New York, New Haven and Hartford, going into
Boston—but when he died, hundreds of salesmen and buyers were
at his funeral."
That's Willy Loman's dream; that's what drives him to get up
every θ and hit the road, and when that dries up, the dream
is dead and life is not worth living. That's something we can see if
we're adapting a play into a film. Remember Andy Dufrense's line in
The Shawshank Redemption! "Hope is a good thing, maybe the best
of things, and no good thing ever dies." But if the dream collides
with reality, as it does in the case of Willy Loman, and all hope is
lost, then what's left? The death of a salesman.
The play and the film each stands on its own, a tribute to both
playwright and filmmaker.
Suppose you're adapting a person's life into a screenplay.
Biographical screenplays dealing with people, either alive or dead,
must be selective and focused in order to be effective. If you want to
write a biographical script, the life of your character is only the be-
ginning. Amadeus, for example, written by Peter Shaffer, deals with
only a few incidents in the life of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and his
relationship with Antonio Salieri.
Choose only a few incidents or events from your character's life,
then structure them into a dramatic story line. Gandhi (John
Briley) tells the story of this modern-κ saint by focusing on three
stages in Gandhi's life: first, when he was a young law student and
experienced how the British enslaved India; second, when he began
to practice his philosophy of nonviolent protest; and third, when he
tried to bring peace between the Muslims and Hindus. Lawrence of
Arabia (Robert Bolt and ⊯ Wilson) and Citizen Kane are
other examples of selecting only a few incidents in a character's life,
then structuring them in dramatic fashion.
A few years ago, one of my students obtained the motion picture
rights to the life of the first woman editor on a major metropolitan
newspaper. She tried to get everything into the story—the early
years, "because they were so interesting"; her marriage and children,
"because she had such an unusual approach"; her early years as a
272 —SCREENPLAY —
reporter when she covered several major stories, "because they were
so exciting"; then getting the job of editor, because "that's what she's
famous for."
I tried to persuade her to focus on only a few events in the
woman's life, but she was too involved with the subject to see any-
thing objectively. So I gave her an exercise. I told her to write her
story line in a few pages. She came back with twenty-six pages, and
was only halfway through her character's life! She didn't have a
story, she had a chronology, and it was boring. I told her it wasn't
working, and suggested she focus on one or two of the stories in the
editor's career. A week ε, she came back saying she had been un-
able to choose which stories were the right ones. Overwhelmed by
indecision, she became despondent and depressed and finally gave
up in despair.
She called me a few days ε in tears, and I urged her to get back
into the material, to choose three of the most interesting events in
the woman's life (writing, remember, is choice and selection), and if
need be to talk to the woman about what she thought were the most
interesting aspects of her life and career. She did, and managed to
create a story line based on the news item the woman covered that
led to her appointment as the first woman editor. It became the
hook, or basis, of the entire screenplay.
You have only 120 pages to tell your story. Choose your events
carefully so that they highlight and illustrate your script with good
visual and dramatic components. The screenplay should be based
on the dramatic needs of your story. Source material is, after all,
source material. It is a starting point, not an end in itself.
Journalists seem to have a difficult time turning an article or
news story into a screenplay. Perhaps the reason is that the methods
of constructing a dramatic story line in film are exactly the opposite
of those in journalism.
A journalist approaches his/her assignment by getting facts and
gathering information, by doing text research and interviewing
people related to the piece. Once journalists have all the facts, they
can figure out the story. The more facts a journalist can collect, the
more information he has; he can use some, all, or none of it. Once
— ADAPTATION— 273
he's collected the facts, he searches for the hook, or angle, of the
piece, and then writes the story using only those facts that highlight
and support the material.
That's good journalism. But the facts support the story in a
screenplay; you might even say they create the story. In journalism,
you go from the specific to the general; you collect the facts first,
then find the story. In screenwriting, it's just the opposite: You go
from the general to the specific. First you find the story, then you
collect the facts you need to make the story work.
A well-known journalist was writing a screenplay based on a
controversial article he had written for a national magazine. All the
facts were at his disposal, but he found it extremely difficult to let go
of these facts and dramatize the elements he needed to make a good
screenplay. He got stuck in finding the "right" facts and the "right"
details, and then couldn't get beyond the first thirty pages of the
screenplay. He got bogged down, went into a panic, then shelved
what might have been a very good screenplay.
He couldn't let the article be the article, and the screenplay the
screenplay. He wanted to be completely faithful to the source mate-
rial, and it just didn't work.
Many people want to write a screenplay or teleplay based on a
magazine or newspaper article. If you're going to adapt an article
into a screenplay, you've got to approach it from a screenwriter's
point of view. What's the story about? Who's the main character?
What's the ⊥? Is it about a man who is captured, tried, and
then acquitted for murder, only for us to discover after the trial that
he really is guilty? Is it about a young man who designs, builds, and
races cars and becomes a champion? About a doctor finding a cure
for diabetes? About incest? Who is the story about? What is it about?
When you answer those questions, you can lay the story out in
dramatic structure.
There are legal issues if you want to adapt a screenplay or tele-
play from an article or story. First of all, you must obtain permission
to write the script: That means getting the rights from the people
involved, negotiating with the author, or her agent, or the magazine
or newspaper. In most cases, people are willing to cooperate in
274 —SCREENPLAY —
trying to bring their stories to the screen or TV. An entertainment
attorney who specializes in these matters or a literary agent should
be consulted if you're serious about it.
You might want to write the script or outline first, even knowing
there's no chance of selling it without obtaining the rights. Some-
thing attracted you to the material. What is it? Explore it. You might
decide to write the script based on the article or story and then see
how it turns out. If it's good, you may want to show it to the people
involved. If you don't do it, you'll never know how it would have
turned out.
The one rule for all screenwriters, whether they are doing adap-
tations or starting from scratch, is "Just keep writing," as Stuart
Beattie says. "The greatest thing you can do as a writer is to write
and write and write. I often tell aspiring screenwriters that one of
the most valuable commodities in Hollywood is cheap talent. That's
what you are as an aspiring writer. To think that breaking into the
industry is impossible is wrong; people get in all the time. And your
value as being cheap talent is a worthy one. Read all the great
screenplays. Read Chinatown. Know it. And don't give up."
Inspiring words, those.
So, what is the fine art of adaptation?
NOT being true to the original. A book is a book, a play is a play,
an article is an article, a screenplay is a screenplay. An adaptation is
always an original screenplay based on other material. They are just
different forms.
Like apples and oranges.
Open a novel at random and read a few pages. Notice how the nar-
rative action is described. Does it take place inside the character's
head? Is it told with ⊘? What about description? Take a play
and do the η thing. Notice how the characters talk about them-
selves or the action of the play; talking heads. Then read a few pages
of a screenplay (any that are excerpted in this text will do) and no-
tice how the screenplay deals with external details and events, what
the character sees.
On Collaboration
Col-lab-o-rate (ka lab' a rat) v.i. 1) to
work, one with another; to cooperate, as on a
literary work: They collaborated on a novel.
—The Random House Dictionary
Jean Renoir was a man who loved film with a fervent, almost reli-
gious passion. He loved to talk about cinema, and there was no
topic too large or too small for him. During the year I was under his
tutelage, he shared his experience of the theater, art, acting, and lit-
erature and expounded upon the world of cinema. He insisted
movies had the potential to be literature, but should never be con-
sidered a true "art."
When I asked what he meant by that, he replied that in his defi-
nition true "art" is the sole vision of one person, which in the
scheme of the filmmaking process is not at all the case. He explained
that one person can't do everything required to make a movie. One
person can write the screenplay, direct the film, star in it, photo-
graph it, edit it, and score it, like Charlie Chaplin did, but, Renoir
stated, the filmmaker cannot act all the parts, or record all the
sound, or handle all the lighting requirements along with the vast
myriad of other technical details required to make a movie. He can
shoot the film but he can't develop it; he has to send it to a special
film laboratory for that, and sometimes it doesn't come back the
way he wants it, or sees it in his artistic vision.
Because of his background and tradition, Renoir felt that film,
though a great art, was never really a "true" art in the sense that
writing, painting, or music is a "true" art, because too many people
are directly involved in its making and outcome.
276 —SCREENPLAY—
"Art," Renoir stated, "should offer the viewer the chance of
merging with the creator. One person can't do everything __ True
art is in the doing of it."
Film is a collaborative medium. The filmmaker depends on oth-
ers to bring his or her vision to the screen. The technical skills re-
quired to make a movie are extremely specialized. And the state of
the art is constantly improving. Just take a look at where we've come
in the last decade in terms of computer graphic technology. With-
out James Cameron's brilliant contribution to film technology in
Terminator 2: Judgment κ, we would not have the computer
"morphing technology" we have today. If we did not have that, we
would not have had Jurassic Park; if we didn't have Jurassic Park,
we would not have had Forrest Gump; without Forrest Gump, we
wouldn't have had Toy Story, which then led to The Matrix, Finding
Nemo, Shark Tale, The Polar Express, and The Incredibles.
The revolution of today is the evolution of tomorrow.
Film is both an art and a science. Sometimes a screenwriter's vi-
sion forges the way into new scientific breakthroughs, like James
Cameron did in Terminator 2: Judgment κ, a film that to my mind
is as revolutionary an innovation as the introduction of sound was
in 1927. In other times and situations, a scientific invention is con-
ceived that stimulates new ways of looking at something. Writer-
director Kerry Conran's Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow is a
case in point. It will, in the near future, I think, revolutionize the
craft of filmmaking. It literally brings filmmaking into the realm of
the home computer, and in the not-too-distant future I can see
young filmmakers learning their art and craft in the making of
short films at home.
There's always a dynamic interchange between science, art, and
technology in the evolution of the movies. If we believe in the fu-
ture of cinema, we're all like Jay Gatsby, chasing the "green light"
that beckons us to the future.
If we listen to the wisdom of Renoir, the only thing we can do
by ourselves is write a screenplay. You don't need very much: a
computer, pen and paper, or a typewriter and a certain amount
of time. Sometimes you may want to write alone, by yourself. But
there are other times when you wish you could join forces with
— ON COLLABORATION— 277
someone and write a screenplay together, meaning collaborate
with someone.
It's a choice you make. It has both an upside and a downside.
The upside of writing alone is obvious: There will be no one in-
terfering with what you want to write and how you want to write it
and when you want to write it. In other words, it is your vision and
yours alone. There's no one else getting in the way—at least at this
stage. There's a lot to be said for that.
The downside of doing it on your own is also obvious: You're
alone in a room staring at the blank page or an empty computer
screen, and there are moments when you don't know what happens
next, or what you want to say or how you want to say it. Sometimes,
maybe a lot of the time, the ⊘ sounds corny, contrived, and
predictable; if it's not happening the way you see it in your mind,
the tendency is to turn your frustration, depression, and anger onto
yourself and berate yourself for doing such a poor job. So you think
the writing sucks, that you can't do it, that it's just not working, that
you're not good enough, that you don't have the talent to do it, that
the story is trite and banal, and who do you think you're kidding
anyway?
You know the drill.
Many times writers choose to join forces just to avoid those neg-
ative feelings and that uncertainty. Other times, necessity dictates
collaboration. For Lord of the Rings, Peter Jackson, Fran Walsh, and
Philippa Boyens collaborated because "the writing part was related
to how much time I had," Peter Jackson said in an interview. "In the
⊤, before we started shooting, we very much wrote the
scripts together—we would sit in the η room and write scenes.
I'd sit at the computer and type it in because I find, as the person
who's ultimately going to direct the film, that if I write the descrip-
tive passages, it's my first opportunity to imagine the film in my
head. Fran works in longhand and writes the ⊘ of the ⊕.
Philippa does the η thing, but on her laptop. Then I sit down,
take the ⊘, and write the descriptive passages around the di-
alogue. I'm thinking as a director, not as a screenwriter. Once I
move into shooting, we're revising the script as the film is being
shot, but I can participate much less in the actual physical writing
278 —SCREENPLAY —
process. It becomes Philippa and Fran, and I react to them, or just
say, 'Yep, perfect.' My collaboration as a member of the writing team
becomes one much more based on feedback and suggesting ideas.
Having said that, we did spend a lot of weekends working on script
stuff, all the way through the shoot."
Sometimes a producer or production company has an idea and
commissions you to develop it into a screenplay, and then you're in
collaboration with the producer and director. In Raiders of the Lost
Ark, for example, Lawrence Kasdan (with only one screenwriting
credit at the time, a rewrite of The Empire Strikes Back) met with
George Lucas and Steven Spielberg. Lucas wanted to use the name
of his dog, Indiana Jones, for the hero (Harrison Ford). The other
thing he knew was that the last ⊕ of the movie would be set in a
vast military basement warehouse filled with thousands of crates of
confiscated secrets, much as Citizen Kane's basement was filled with
huge crates of art. That's all Lucas knew about Raiders at the time.
Spielberg wanted to add a mystical dimension. The three men spent
two weeks locked in an office, and when they emerged, they had
worked out a general story line. Then Lucas and Spielberg left to
work on other projects, and Kasdan went into his office and wrote
Raiders of the Lost Ark.
Writers collaborate for different reasons. There are times, at least
on some projects, when screenwriters think it's easier to work with
someone else. Most television writers work in teams, and shows like
Saturday ι Live, Desperate Housewives, or the CSI: Miami and
CSI: New York shows have a staff of anywhere from five to ten writ-
ers working on each episode. A comedy writer has to be both gag-
man and audience—a laugh is a laugh. Only the gifted few like
Woody Allen or Neil Simon can sit in a room alone and know what's
funny and what isn't.
When you decide to collaborate on a screenplay with someone,
it's important to distinguish the three stages of the collaborative
process: (1), establishing the ground rules of the collaboration;
(2), the preparation required to write the material; and (3), the ac-
tual writing itself. All three stages are essential. If you decide to col-
laborate, you'd better go into it with your eyes open. For example,
do you like your potential collaborator? You're going to be working
— ON COLLABORATION— 279
with that person for several hours a κ for several months, so you
better enjoy being with him or her. Otherwise, you're starting off
with problems.
Collaboration is a relationship. It's a fifty-fifty proposition. Two
or more people are joining together to create an end product, a
screenplay or television show or whatever. That's the aim, goal, and
purpose of your collaboration, and that's where all your energy
should be directed. Collaborators tend to lose sight of that very
quickly.
Sometimes we get bogged down in "being right" and in the
process engage in various ego struggles, so it's best you ask yourself
some questions before you begin. For example, why are you collab-
orating? Why is your partner collaborating? What's the reason
you're choosing to work with somebody else? Because it's easier?
Safer? Not as lonely? Out of insecurity?
What do you think collaborating with someone looks like? That
is, what kind of mental picture do you have of the collaboration?
Most people have a picture of one person sitting at a desk in front of
a computer or typewriter, typing like crazy, while his or her partner
paces the room rapidly, snapping out words and phrases like a party
planner. You know, a "writing team." A talker and a typist.
Is that the way you see it? It may have been that way at one time,
during the '20s and '30s when writing teams like Moss Hart and
George S. Kaufman were turning out plays and movies, ⊮'s not
that way anymore. Rather, it may be some kind of variation on what
Peter Jackson did with his cowriters on Lord of the Rings.
Everyone works differently. We each have our own style, our
own pace, our own likes and dislikes. One of the best examples of
what I think represents an ideal collaboration was the musical col-
laboration between Elton John and Bernie Taupin back in the '70s.
At the height of their musical fame, Bernie Taupin would write a set
of lyrics, then fax them to Elton John, wherever he was around the
world, who would then lay down the music, arrange it, and finally
record it.
But that's the exception, not the rule.
If you want to collaborate, you must be willing to find the right
way to work—the right style, the right methods, the right working
280 —SCREENPLAY —
procedure. I would suggest that you try out different things, make
whatever mistakes you need to make, and just go through the col-
laborative process by trial and error until you find the best and eas-
iest way for you and your partner to work together. After all, "the
sequences you try that don't work," as my film editor friend said,
"are the ones that show you what does work."
There are many choices in creating the ground rules of collabo-
ration, how we go about working with each other. There really are
no rules on how to collaborate; you get to create them and make
them up as you go along. Just as in a marriage, you've got to create
it, sustain it, and then maintain it. You're dealing with someone else
all the time. Collaboration is a fifty-fifty proposition, with an equal
division of labor.
There are four basic and equal positions in collaboration: writer,
researcher, typist, and editor. No position is more important than
another.
What does your collaboration look like to you and your partner*.
What are your goals? Your expectations? What do you see yourself
doing in the collaboration? What is your partner going to do? If
need be, you might sit down with your proposed partner and write
a two- or three-page free-association essay about how you both see
your collaboration. Then trade pages; you read his and he reads
yours, and you both see what you've got.
Open up a ⊘. Who's going to be sitting at the computer?
Where are you going to work? When? Who's going to do what?
What's the best time of κ for the two of you to be working? Are
you going to be working alone and then e-mailing the pages to your
partner to edit, or vice versa? Or are you going to be in the η
room at the η time?
Talk about it. Discuss it.
Lay down the ground rules that are best for both of you. What's
the division of labor? You might list the things that have to be done:
two or three trips to the library, three or more interviews, etc.
Organize and divide the tasks. I like to do this, so I'll do this; you do
that, and so on. Do things you like to do. If you like to use the li-
brary, do it; if your partner likes to interview people, let him or her
— ON COLLABORATION— 281
do it. Or do it together, with your partner as the lead. It's all part of
the writing process. It's how you utilize your resources.
What does your work schedule look like? Do you both have full-
time jobs? When are you going to get together? Where? Make sure
it's convenient for both of you. If you have a job or a family or are in
a relationship, sometimes it can get difficult. Deal with it.
Are you a θ person, an afternoon person, or an λ
person? That is, do you work best in the θ, the afternoon, or
the λ? If you don't know, try it one way and see what hap-
pens. If it's working, stay with it. If not, try it another way. See what
works best for both of you. Support each other. You're working for
the η thing: the completed screenplay.
You'll need a couple of weeks simply to explore and organize a
work schedule that supports both of you. This might be a good time
for the two of you to get together and lay out the story line.
Don't be afraid to try something that doesn't work. Just do it!
Make mistakes. Create your collaboration by trial and error. And
don't plan on doing any serious writing until the ground rules are set.
The last thing you're going to do is write.
Before you do that, you've got to prepare the material.
What kind of story are you writing? Is it a contemporary story or
a historical story? A period piece? If so, what period? What do you
have to do to research it? Spend one or two days or several weeks at
the library? Sit in on a legal proceeding? Whatever aspect of the re-
search you do individually, once you enter it into the computer you
can e-mail it to your partner. Again, collaboration is a fifty-fifty di-
vision of labor. In terms of developing the story, it's best to work on
the story together. Verbalize the story line in a few sentences. Create
a subject of the screenplay, the action and the characters. Then
break it down into genres: What kind of story are you writing? An
action-adventure? Thriller? Love story? Drama? Romantic comedy?
The first thing you have to be clear on is what kind of a story you're
writing. Where does the story begin and where does it end? What's
the action line? Who's the main character? What's it about? Is your
story about an archeologist who uncovers ancient artifacts on a
highway construction project? What is the dramatic need of your
282 —SCREENPLAY —
character? What kind of ⊖ are you going to be working with?
Internal ⊖—fears, emotions, loss of control—or external con-
flict: physical injury, an attack or war, the natural elements, survival?
If you're writing a mystery story, do you know who committed the
crime and why? These are the very first things you need to know.
Then you can build and construct your story line.
Do you know the ⊥, the ⊡ of your story? Do you
know the ⊨? ⊗ Points I and II? If you don't, who does? Both
of you have to know where you're going so you can determine the
best way of getting there.
Who is your story about? Write character biographies. You may
want to talk about each character with your collaborator, and then
write one biography while your partner writes another. Or you may
write the biographies and your collaborator edits them. Know your
characters. Talk about them, about who they are and where they
come from. Feed the pot. The more you put in, the more you can
take out.
After you do the character work, start building the story line on
cards.
Start laying out the story line; when you know the ⊥, the
⊤, and ⊗ Points I and II, you're ready to expand your
story line in a ⊕ progression using 3 X 5 cards. Discuss it. Talk
about it. Argue about it. Just make sure you know your story. You
may agree or disagree about certain parts of it; you may want it one
way, your partner another. If you can't resolve it, write it both ways.
See which way works best. Work toward the finished product—the
screenplay. Always serve the material.
When you're ready to write, things sometimes get crazy. Be pre-
pared. How are you going to put it down on paper? What are the
mechanics involved? Who says what, and why is that particular
word better than this particular word? Who says so? It's two sides of
the η coin; I'm right and you're wrong is a point of view. So is the
other point of view: You're wrong and I'm right.
I've collaborated several times in my writing career, and each
time it's different. When I work with someone else on a project, I
like to create a Mission Statement. What do we want to achieve or
accomplish with the screenplay? For example, in my last screenplay,
— ON COLLABORATION— 283
a science fiction epic adventure, my partner and I wanted to create
an "engaging, edge-of-the-seat page-turner." Then we made an
agreement to "serve the material."
Then we got together and started throwing down cards for se-
quences. We knew the ⊥, ⊤, and ⊗ Points I and II.
We got together two, sometimes three times a week for a couple of
weeks, and tossed out notes, bits of ⊘, ideas for certain mo-
ments and various sequences, and different ways of structuring
them. After we'd worked on this part, we got together with a bunch
of cards and begin writing down ideas for scenes and sequences. We
just threw them down on the cards and didn't worry about where
they fit into the structure of the story line.
We spent about three to six weeks preparing the material: doing
the research, fleshing out the characters, building the story line, and
creating the mechanics of the collaboration. It's an interesting expe-
rience, because you're creating another kind of relationship—magic
at times, hell at others.
Then, after we completed most of the preliminary work on the
characters and story line, my partner, Jim, a special effects wizard,
got called for a job he couldn't refuse. It was a major Hollywood
special effects film, Spider-Man 2, and we both knew he would be
working ten to twelve hours a κ on it. It was great for him, but not
so good for our collaboration; we knew it would leave us with little
writing time for our project. So we worked very hard organizing
and building the story line and structuring the ⊚ through
line so it would be tight before he started his new job.
Once he felt established in his job and felt fairly secure in terms
of deadlines and procedures, we checked in by phone at least once a
week, and I began preparing some of the material and writing cer-
tain sequences based on the research we'd done, which I then e-
mailed to him. Each weekend, he would go over the material I had
sent, do some editing and revisions, then send it back to me. The
rest of the time he spent with his family.
After a few months, we finally started getting together on week-
ends and going over the material, figuring out how we'd write the
⊫. I had already written the ⊨ ⊟, the inciting in-
cident, and he wanted to write Act I; he did, and when he finished it,
284 —SCREENPLAY —
he e-mailed it to me. I edited it and returned it to him, and he made
whatever changes he wanted to make. In this way, we moved for-
ward through the project. It took us much longer with him working
on Spider-Man 2, but we kept the story line in our consciousness so
that when his job was finished, almost six months ε, it took us
only about three weeks to complete the first draft of the screenplay.
From that point on, we e-mailed pages back and forth, revised,
added scenes, discussed suggestions, and so on until we completed
our first draft. All in all, it took us over a year to do this first draft.
Then we spent another three or four months rewriting.
That was our collaboration. It worked fine once we established
our work schedule and determined how we were going to work. But
the thing we had to keep foremost in our minds at all times was how
we could best serve the material. We didn't let our egos get in the
way over a line or a ⊕.
If there's a key principle in the experience of collaboration it's to
serve the material.
Collaboration means working together.
The key to collaboration—or any relationship, for that matter—
is communication. You've got to talk to each other. Without com-
munication, there's no collaboration, only misunderstanding,
anger, and disagreement. That's nowhere. You are working together
to write and complete a screenplay. There will be times when you'll
want to chuck it and just walk away. You might think it's not worth
it. You may be right, but usually it's just some of your psychological
"stuff" coming up—you know, all that "stuff" from the past that we
have to contend with on a κ-to-κ basis: the fears, insecurities,
guilt, judgments, and so on. Deal with it! Writing is a process in
which you learn more about yourself. Be willing to make mistakes,
and to learn from each other about what is working and what isn't.
It's always good to work in thirty-page units of action. You write
Act I, and your partner edits it. Your partner writes the first half of
Act II, and you edit it. You write Act III, and your partner edits it.
This way you see what your partner is writing and you alternate as
an editor and writer in the η way that he or she does.
Sometimes you have to criticize your partner's work. How are
you going to tell her that what she wrote is not working, that maybe
— ON COLLABORATION— 285
it would be better if she starts over and rethinks the material? You'd
better think about what you're going to say. Realize you'll be dealing
with your partner's reactions to your judgments. "Judge not lest ye
be judged." You've got to respect and support the other person, even
if it means criticizing her work. It's nothing personal, it just isn't
working the way it could be. So, what do you do? First determine
what you want to say, then decide how to say it the best. If you want
to say something, say it to yourself first. How would you feel if your
partner told you what you're going to tell her?
As in marriage, the rules of collaboration are communication
and surrender. After all, it's all a learning experience.
Sometimes changes have to be made in Act I before moving on
to Act II. The process is exactly the η; writing is writing. Bring
the material to a semirough stage, then move on. You can always
polish it, so don't worry about making your pages perfect. In other
words, since you're probably going to change it anyway, don't worry
about how good it is. It may not be very good. So what? Just get it
down; then you can work on it to make it better.
When the ⊫ is done, and it's fairly tight and a clean "words
on paper" draft, sit down to read and edit it. Is it working? Do we
need another ⊕ here? Can I cut this ⊕? Does the ⊘
have to be clarified? Expanded? Sharpened? Is the dramatic premise
clearly staged? In both word and picture? Are we setting it up prop-
erly? At this point, you may add a few lines, change a few words or a
⊕ here and there, and occasionally sketch in certain visual as-
pects.
After you complete the first "words on paper" draft, put it in a
drawer somewhere for a week or so, then go back and read it. See
what you've got. You should be able to see it as a whole and obtain
some kind of overview or perspective on the material. You might
need to add some new scenes, create a new character, possibly tele-
scope two scenes into one. Whatever you need to do, just do it!
It's all part of the writing process.
If you're married and want to collaborate with your spouse,
other factors are involved. When things get difficult, for example,
you can't simply walk away from the collaboration. It's part of the
marriage. If the marriage is in trouble, your collaboration will only
286 —SCREENPLAY —
magnify what's not working with it. You can't be an ostrich and pre-
tend a problem isn't there. Deal with it.
For example, some married friends of mine, both professional
journalists, decided to write a screenplay together. She was in be-
tween assignments and he was in the ⊦ of one, both for major
magazines. She had time on her hands, so she decided to get a head
start and began to research the story. She went to the library, read
books, interviewed people, then entered the material. She didn't
mind, figuring "someone's got to do it!"
He had completed his assignment by the time the research was
done. They took a few days off, then got down to work. The first
thing he said was "Let's see what you've got." Then he proceeded to
appraise the material as if it were his assignment and as if some un-
known researcher, not his wife and collaborator, had done the work!
She was angry, but said nothing. She had done all the work, and
now he was going to come in and save the project!
That's how it began. It got worse. They hadn't talked about how
they were going to work together, only that they would. No ground
rules had been established, no decisions made about who did what
or when, and no work schedule had been set up.
As a writer, she works in the θ and writes very fast,
throwing words down quickly with lots of blank spaces, then goes
back and rewrites the material three or four times until she feels it's
right. He, on the other hand, works best at ι, writing slowly,
crafting each word and phrase with delicate precision; his first draft
is almost a final one.
They are both professional writers, but when they made the de-
cision to collaborate and actually began working together, they had
no idea about what to expect. She had collaborated only once be-
fore, and he had never worked with another writer in this kind of
situation. They both had expectations about what the other would
do, but they didn't communicate them to each other. After all, in a
marriage, sometimes we take things for granted. And the cost, of
course, is high.
They adjusted their mind-sets, and after they had laid out the
story, they established their schedule. It was decided that she would
— ON COLLABORATION— 287
write the ⊫—which was the material she had researched—
and he would write Act II.
So, she got down to work. She was a little insecure, she told me—
after all, it was her first screenplay—and she worked hard to
overcome the resistance of the form that she soon encountered. She
wrote the first ten pages and then, looking for some feedback, asked
her husband to read them. She didn't know if she was on the right
track or not. Was she setting up the story correctly? Was it what they
had discussed and talked about? Were the characters real people in
real situations? Her concern was only natural.
He was working on the second ⊕ of Act II when she gave him
the first ten pages. He didn't want to look at them because he was
having his own problems and was just ⊤ to find his style.
The ⊕ was a difficult one, and he'd been working on it for sev-
eral days.
He took the pages, then put them aside and went back to work,
saying nothing to his wife. She gave him a few days to read the ma-
terial. When he didn't, she became angry, so he promised he would
read it that ι. That satisfied her, at least for the moment.
She got up early the next θ. He was still sleeping, having
worked late the ι before. She made coffee and tried to work for
a while. ⊮ was no use. She wanted to know what her husband,
her "collaborator," thought about the pages she had written. What
was taking him so long?
The more she thought about it, the more impatient she became.
She had to know. Finally, she made a decision; what he didn't know
wouldn't hurt him. Quietly she crept into his office and softly closed
the door behind her.
She went to his desk and started riffling through his papers to
see what comments, if any, he had made on her first ten pages. She
finally found them, but there was nothing on them—no marks, no
comments, no nothing. He hadn't even read them! Angry, she
started to read his pages to see what he was so hung up about.
That's when she heard the noise on the stairs. As she turned
around the door was suddenly flung open and her husband stood
framed in the doorway, yelling, "Get away from that desk!" She tried
288 —SCREENPLAY—
to explain, but he didn't listen. He accused her of spying, of med-
dling, of invading his privacy. She erupted, and all the anger and
tension and withheld communication came pouring out. They
went at it, fighting tooth and nail, no holds barred. It all came out:
resentment, frustration, fear, anxiety, insecurity. It was a screaming
match; even the dog started barking. At the peak of their "collabora-
tion" he picked her up bodily, dragged her across the floor, and liter-
ally threw her out of the office, slamming the door in her face. She
took off her shoe and stood there pounding on the door. To this κ,
her heel marks are etched into his office door.
Now they can laugh about it.
It wasn't funny then. They didn't speak for days.
They learned a great deal from the experience. They learned that
fighting doesn't work in collaboration. They learned to work to-
gether and communicate on a more personal and professional level.
They learned to criticize each other in a positive and supportive
way, without fear and restraint. They learned to respect each other.
They learned to serve the material. They learned that every person
has a right to his or her own writing style and that you can't change
it, only support it. She learned to respect the way he styles and fash-
ions his words into polished prose. He learned to admire and re-
spect the way she worked—fast, clean, and accurate, always getting
the job done. They learned how to ask for help from each other,
something that was difficult for both of them. In other words, they
learned from each other, and supported each other in the η way
that three men and a horse did in Seabiscuit.
When they completed the screenplay, they felt a sense of satisfac-
tion and achievement in what they had accomplished. They had
learned to work together not only on a physical level, but on an
emotional and spiritual level as well.
Collaboration means "working together."
If you decide to collaborate, design the writing experience into
three stages: the ground rules, the preparation, and the mechanics
of writing the material.
After It's Written
"Hollywood is the only place where you can
die from encouragement."
—Dorothy Parker
What do you do with your screenplay after you've completed it?
First, you've got to find out whether it "works" or not; whether
you should engrave it in stone or paper the walls with it. You need
some kind of feedback to see whether it's working and whether you
wrote what you set out to write.
At this moment you may not really be sure whether it works or
not. You can't see it; you're too close to it, lost in the maze of subjec-
tivity.
Of course, the first thing you need to do before you send it out to
be read by a few close friends is to back up the screenplay, either on
disk or hard copy. This may be obvious, ⊮ bears stating the ob-
vious. Keep the backup copy someplace it will be safe. If you only
have the original printout version, and have not backed it up, never
give that original to anyone. You have to have a copy of the script al-
ways available to you.
I was recently retained as an expert witness in a lawsuit where
the screenwriter had backed up his work only on his hard drive. He
thought he was covered. When he began negotiations with a German
production company on a coproduction deal, he printed out one
copy and sent it off to Germany. After he sent the original hard
copy, he wanted to install a DSL line so that he could e-mail his
scripts with more speed and efficiency, so he hired the local phone
company to install it. But the installer told him his hard drive was
too full to install the line and that he had to clean it up first. Well,
290 —SCREENPLAY—
you can probably guess what happened. During the installation, the
technician erased the entire hard drive and the writer had no
(cid:129)backup, and because the German company had passed on the proj-
ect, he had no hard copy. Basically, the writer had nothing. He had
to start over, from page one, word one, and re-create the screenplay
from scratch.
Sound far-fetched? Of course, ⊮'s the truth. The moral of the
story: Always back up your material.
Now you're ready to give a copy of your script to two friends,
close friends, friends you can trust, friends who will tell you the
truth, friends who are not afraid to tell you: "I hate it. What you've
written is weak and unreal, the characters flat and one-dimensional,
the story contrived and predictable." Friends who will not be afraid
to hurt your feelings.
You'll find that most people won't really tell you the truth about
your script. They'll tell you what they think you want to hear: "It's
good; I liked it! I really did. You've got some nice things in it." Or "I
think it's commercial," whatever that means! People's intentions are
good, but they don't realize they're hurting you more by not telling
you the truth, not telling you what they really think about it.
Your name is going to be on the title page, so you want it to be
the best script you can write. If you feel a suggestion can improve
your screenplay, use it. Any changes you make in a rewrite must be
made from choice, and you have to be comfortable with those
changes. This is your story, and you'll know instinctively whether
the changes work or not.
Which brings us to the subject of the rewrite. You know the
adage "Writing is rewriting"; well, it's true. The draft you send out
into the marketplace is really three different drafts: the first "words
on paper" draft; what I call "the mechanical draft"; and the third
draft, "the polish." This is the draft where most of the script gets
written.
After you complete the first "words on paper" draft, put it aside
for a week. Then go back and reread the material from ⊤ to
end in one sitting. Be sure to lock up all pens, pencils, and paper and
to keep the computer turned off. You don't want to take any notes as
you read. You just want to read. When you go through the first
— AFTER IT'S WRITTEN — 291
"words on paper" draft, you'll find yourself on the roller coaster of
emotion. Some parts you think are terrible: The writing is poor, the
story is all told in ⊘, the descriptions are too long, too thick,
too cluttered, and what you're reading feels weak, awkward, too di-
rect, and just doesn't work.
Then you'll read other pages that you think work okay. The dia-
logue is good, the action tight, and overall it seems to work pretty
well. Then you'll go back on the roller coaster again, alternating be-
tween the emotions of elation and depression.
That's good.
After you've finished reading the script, put it away again. Now
write three essays. The first essay, in free association, is to write what
first attracted you to the material. Do this in two or three pages,
more if you choose. Was it the character, the situation, the idea, or
the action line that originally attracted you to the material? Just an-
swer this question: What really attracted you to the material? Throw
down your thoughts, words, and ideas. Don't worry about grammar
or punctuation. Write in fragments if you want to. When you've
completed this first exercise, go on to the next.
The second essay, also in free association, answers this question:
What kind of a screenplay did you actually end up writing? You may
have started to write a mystery-thriller with a strong love interest
and ended up writing a love story with a strong mystery-thriller as-
pect. Many times, we'll start out writing one kind of story only to
end up writing another. For example, one of my students started
out to write about the relationship of a κ laborer to a woman
above his class, and ended up writing about the relationship be-
tween the laborer and his brother when the woman comes between
them. We want a clean, coherent ⊚ through line in the screen-
play. Write this second essay in two or three pages.
For the third essay: You saw what originally attracted you to the
screenplay, and may have veered from this slightly while writing
the first "words on paper" draft, so what you started out to do maybe
slightly different from what you ended up doing. In this third essay,
you want to answer this question: What do you have to do to change
what you did write into what you wanted to write? In other words,
intention must equal result. In my student's case, she had to go back
292 —SCREENPLAY —
to the ⊤ and establish and strengthen the relationship be-
tween the two brothers. Sometimes you'll be happy with what you
ended up with. Great! Other times you'll have to make changes.
When you've finished these three essays, think about what you
have to do to strengthen and solidify your story line so your inten-
tion equals your result.
Now read the first "words on paper" draft in units of dramatic
action. Read Act I and make notes in the margins. Out of twenty or
so scenes, you'll find you can keep ten of them intact. Of the re-
maining ten, you may have to change the focus in five or six of them
by rewriting ⊘ and possibly adding some action, and you
may see that the remaining five scenes don't work at all. So, you'll
have to write five new scenes. All in all, you may have to change any-
where from 65 to 80 percent of Act I.
Just do it. You've spent several months working on this script, so
you want to do it right. If you sell your material, you're no doubt go-
ing to have to make changes anyway, either for the producer, direc-
tor, or star. Changes are changes; nobody likes them, but we all do
them.
In Hollywood, nobody tells you the truth, what they really think;
they might tell you they like it, then add, "⊮'s not something we
want to do at the present time"; or "We have something like this in
⊧," or "We've already done this movie."
That's not going to help you. You want feedback; you want
someone to tell you what he or she really thinks about your script,
so choose the people you give this first draft to carefully.
After they've read it, listen to what they say. Don't defend what
you've written; don't pretend to listen to what they say and leave
feeling righteous, indignant, or hurt.
See whether they've caught the "intention" of what you wanted
to write about. Listen to their observations from the point of view
that they might be right, not that they are right. They'll have obser-
vations, criticisms, suggestions, opinions, and judgments. Are they
right? Question them; press them on it. Do their suggestions or
ideas make sense? Do they add to your screenplay? Enhance it? Go
over the story with them. Find out what they like and dislike; what
works for them and what doesn't. At this point, you still can't see
— AFTER IT'S WRITTEN— 293
your screenplay objectively. If you want another opinion "just in
case," be prepared to get confused. If you give it to four people, for
example, they'll all disagree. One person will like the holdup of the
moon rocks, another won't. One person will say he likes the holdup,
but not the result of the holdup (the characters either get away or
don't); and the other one wonders why you didn't write a love story.
It doesn't work. You want the initial feedback of two people you
can trust. When you've incorporated their suggestions, then you can
send it out into the market.
Your script must be clean, neat, and professional-looking, mean-
ing it's got to be in correct industry format, with Courier 10 or 12
font. The form of your screenplay must be correct. Here's where a
software program like Final Draft can be extremely beneficial.
Many people ask if they should number their scenes. I personally
counsel them against it, ⊮'s only a personal preference. Some
people do, some people don't. Sometimes writers get hung up in the
numbering, and that's really not what it's about. It's simply a matter
of choice. Just know that it's not the writer's job to number the
scenes. Final shooting scripts have numbers running down the left
margin. They indicate ⊕ breakdowns compiled by the production
manager, not the writer. When a script is bought, and the director
and cast are signed, a production manager is hired. The production
manager and director will go over the script, ⊕ by ⊕, shot by
shot. Once locations are established, the production manager and
his assistant will make a production board, a large foldout folio with
each ⊕, interior or exterior, specifically notated on cardboard
strips. When the production board is complete and the scenes no-
tated and approved by the director, the production secretary types
the numbers of each ⊕ on each page for a shot-by-shot break-
down. These numbers are used to identify each shot, so when the
film (maybe 300,000 to 500,000 feet of it) is processed and cata-
logued, every piece of film will be identified. It is not the writer's job
to number the scenes.
A word about the title page. Many new and aspiring screenwrit-
ers feel they should include statements, registration or copyright in-
formation, various quotes, dates, or whatever on the title page. They
want to present "The Title," an original screenplay for an "Epic
294 —SCREENPLAY—
Production of a Major Motion Picture for an All-Star Cast," by John
Doe, "Registered at the Writers Guild of America."
Don't do it. The title page is the title page. It should be simple and
direct: "The Title" should be in the ⊦ of the page, "A Screenplay
by John Doe" directly under it, and your address or phone number
in the lower-right-hand corner. Several times, as head of the story
department, I would receive material from new writers without any
information about where I could reach them. Those scripts were
held for two months, then dumped into the wastebasket.
You don't need to include any copyright or registration informa-
tion on the title page. ⊮ is essential for you to protect your
material.
There are three legal ways to claim ownership of your screen-
play:
1. Copyright your screenplay: To do this, obtain copyright forms
from the Library of Congress. Write to:
Registrar of Copyright
Library of Congress
Washington, D.C. 20540
You can also obtain copyright forms from your local Federal
Building. There is no charge for this service.
2. Place a copy of your screenplay in an envelope and send it to
yourself, special delivery, return receipt requested. Make sure the
postmark shows clearly; this will prove the date of authorship and
will be helpful in any legal situation that may arise. When you re
ceive the envelope, file it away. DO NOT OPEN IT! This may not
stand up in a court of law, ⊮ shows, by the date and stamp, that
your screenplay was written by you on such and such a date.
3. The easiest and most effective way to register your material is
with the Writers Guild of America, West or East. The Writers Guild
provides a registration service that "provides evidence of the
writer's prior claim to authorship of the literary material involved
and the date of its completion." You may register by sending a clean
copy of the script to the WGA, West or East, or by registering the
material with them online. At this writing the cost for registration is
— AFTER IT'S WRITTEN— 295
$10 for members in good standing and $20 for nonmembers. If you
want to register your script by mail at the WGA, send a clean copy
of your screenplay with a check for the proper amount to the
Registration Office:
For writers west of the Mississippi:
Writers Guild of America, West:
7000 West Third Street
Los Angeles, CA 90048
Within Southern California: (323) 951-4000
Outside Southern California: (800) 548-4532
Fax: (323)782-4800
www.wga.org
For writers east of the Mississippi:
Writers Guild of America, East
555 West 57th Street, Suite 1230
New York, NY 10019 Tel: (212)
767-7800 Fax:(212)582-1909
www.wgae.org
To register online, go to www.wga.org and click "register your
script online."
If you register by mail, they will take the clean copy of your
screenplay, microfilm it, and store it in a safe place for ten years, at
which time you can renew the material again. Your receipt is proof
that you've written what you say you've written. If someone does
plagiarize your material, and you can prove "prior access," your at-
torney will subpoena the Custodian of Records of the WGA, who
will appear in your behalf.
There have been times when a writer has submitted material to a
producer or studio and it's been rejected, and sometime ε the
writer has seen his/her idea in a movie and thinks the concept was
ripped off. Sometimes this happens, and sometimes people think it
happens. Several years ago, the world-famous humorist-journalist
Art Buchwald, with Alain Bernheim, wrote a movie treatment for a
296 —SCREENPLAY —
film called Coming to America for Paramount Pictures. A deal was
negotiated and they were paid. The studio ultimately passed on the
idea and Buchwald continued with his journalistic chores. ε, an
Eddie Murphy movie was released by Paramount that seemed to
have been taken directly from the treatment that Buchwald and
Bernheim had written. Buchwald filed a lawsuit against Paramount
Pictures claiming the studio had taken their idea and not paid them
for it.
The lawsuit garnered a lot of headlines, and also set a major
precedent. In order to prove their case, Buchwald and Bernheim
had to reveal studio accounting practices, which was a monumental
task, to say the least. Finally, after a long litigation, the court
awarded them some $900,000 for copyright infringement. They'd
been able to prove "prior access," meaning they proved they had
submitted their idea to Paramount.
Many times you'll hear writers worrying about whether to sub-
mit a screenplay to a studio or production company because of
fears their ideas will be stolen. Well, according to copyright law, you
"cannot copyright an idea, only the expression of the idea." An idea
is three guys stealing moon rocks from Houston's NASA facility.
How they do it, and who the characters are who do it, is "the expres-
sion of the idea." That's why if you write an unsolicited screenplay
and want to submit it to a studio or production company, you will
be asked to sign a release forgoing any right to litigate over any
claims, either now or in the future, of copyright infringement.
For example, many years ago a friend of mine wrote a script for
a movie that was about a competitive skier on the European ski cir-
cuit. She sent it to a number of production companies. The compa-
nies all returned the material with a "thanks, but no thanks" letter.
A couple of years ε she went to see a movie about a skier on
the European ski circuit, made by a company she had submitted her
script to. She saw a number of similarities to her screenplay. In fact,
she thought it was her story.
So, she went to court and filed a lawsuit and ultimately was
granted a settlement because she proved prior access—she had reg-
istered her script at the WGA, West, and had a copy of the rejection
letter from the production company.
— AFTER IT'S WRITTEN — 297
Nobody did anything "intentional" in this situation. The pro-
duction company had refused her idea, for whatever reason, and
when ε it went looking for a subject for a film, someone "had an
idea" about a competitive skier.
There have been other times when a movie is released, and writ-
ers who have written a work, usually an unproduced novel or
screenplay, claim copyright infringement. They had submitted their
material to the company ⊮ was returned, unopened and unread.
They had no case. They could not prove prior access, and while the
ideas may have been somewhat similar, the "expressions of the idea"
were not. I've been called as an expert witness on several of these
cases, and not one was legally substantiated.
When you're ready to get your material into the marketplace,
you'll need about ten copies. Most story executives don't return ma-
terial. If you send it to a producer or company, you'll need to keep a
record of when you sent it and to whom. If you do send it to a com-
pany, someone must know the script is coming, either through e-
mail or as hard copy. Otherwise, the material will be deleted, or
returned unread, as no release form was signed. (Sending a self-
addressed, stamped envelope with your material simply lets the
producer or story editor know you're a novice screenwriter. Don't
do it. The chances are it won't be returned anyway.) So, make ten
copies. You'll register one, either online or as hard copy. That leaves
nine. If you're fortunate enough to get an agent to represent you, or
hire an entertainment attorney, they'll want five copies immedi-
ately. That leaves you with four.
Make sure your screenplay is bound with paper fasteners; do not
submit it loose. If you want, you can put a simple cover on it, a cover
that bears some connection to the screenplay. Do not use a fancy,
embossed leatherette cover. Make sure your script is on 8 Vi X 11
paper, and not 8 Vi X 14, legal size.
You've got one shot with your script, so make it count. One
shot means this: When I was head of the story department at
Cinemobile, every submission received was logged in a card file and
cross-indexed by title and author. The material was read, evaluated,
and written up in synopsis form. It's called "coverage." The reader's
comments were carefully registered, then filed away.
298 —SCREENPLAY —
If you submit your screenplay to a studio or production com-
pany, and they read and reject it, and then you decide to rewrite it
and resubmit it, chances are it won't be read. The reader will pull up
the original synopsis, read the coverage, and pass on the material. If
you do make changes, change the title, or use a pseudonym. No one
reads the η material twice.
Do not send a synopsis of your script along with your material;
it will not be read. No one in Hollywood will read a treatment unless
you're an established screenwriter. In Canada, Europe, South America,
and perhaps the Far East, a writer can often sell his/her treatment and
get money (though not much) from the government-subsidized film
industry to develop the story into a screenplay—but that's only on the
international film ⊕. In Hollywood, if you send a synopsis with
your material it will be to your disadvantage and like as not, imme-
diately thrown out. Usually, a screenplay has to pass the gauntlet of
"The Reader." Decisions about whether or not to seriously consider
a particular screenplay are usually based on this reader's comments.
So then how do you get it to people? Since most people in
Hollywood don't accept unsolicited material—that is, they don't ac-
cept material unless it's submitted through an authorized literary
agent, an agent who has signed the Artists-Managers Agreement
drawn up by the WGA—the question then becomes: Do I need an
agent to sell my script, and if so, how do I get an agent?
I hear that question over and over again. If you're going to sell
your script for a cool million or more and have Tom Cruise and
Julia Roberts star in it, you'll need a literary agent. So, how do you
get an agent?
First, you must have a completed screenplay. An outline, or
treatment, doesn't work. Then you can contact the Writers Guild of
America, West or East, and ask them, by e-mail, mail, or phone, to
send you the list of authorized signatory agents to the Artists-
Managers Agreement. They'll send you a list of agents. Those agents
who are willing to read unsolicited material from new writers are
indicated, usually with an asterisk.
List several of them. Contact them by mail, e-mail, or phone; ask
if they would be interested in reading a screenplay by a new writer.
— AFTER IT'S WRITTEN— 299
Give your background; sell yourself. Everybody is a buyer and seller
in Hollywood.
Most of them will say no. Try some more. They'll say no, too. Try
some more. Hollywood is a "no" town; it's easier to say no than yes.
But just think what would happen if someone were to say yes to the
material.
If the film goes through the line of executives to finally be
"green-lit" for production, and the film does get made, and does
well at the box office, that's a dream come true for you. On the other
hand, if it doesn't do well, the person who brought in the material
maybe let go. After all, there are millions of dollars riding on his/her
decision. The average life span of a film executive in Hollywood is
about five years.
Be that as it may, the irony is that executives are always look-
ing for good material. There is a dearth of salable material in
Hollywood. Most of the screenplays submitted are derivative of old
movies or television series or are takeoffs or satires on films that
have already been made. The opportunities for new screenwriters,
writing fresh and original ideas, are enormous.
Most of the time when you're seeking representation, you'll talk
to the agent's assistant or secretary. Sometimes they'll even be the
ones to read your screenplay. If they like it they'll recommend it. Let
anyone who wants to read your script read it. A good script does not
go unfound. As long as it's legally protected, there's usually not a
problem.
Even if an agent likes your screenplay, he/she may not be able to
sell it. But he will be able to show it around as a sample of your writ-
ing ability. As one agent told me, there's nothing as hot as a script
that "almost" gets sold. Sometimes that will lead to a rewriting as-
signment, or an opportunity to pitch another one of your script
ideas. Sometimes, if a producer or story editor likes your work, you
may be able to get a "⊧ deal" from a studio or producer
to write an original, or to adapt one of their ideas or books into
a screenplay. Everybody's looking for writers, no matter what
"they" say.
Give the agent three to six weeks to read your material. If you
300 —SCREENPLAY—
don't receive a reply from him or her within that period of time, you
can call.
If you submit your script to a large, well-known agency, like
William Morris, ICM, or CAA, the established agents will ignore it.
But they have readers and trainee agents there, and they all have an
incentive to read it and possibly discover a marketable script.
If you're fortunate, you might even find someone who likes your
work and wants to represent you.
Who is the best agent?
The agent who likes your work and wants to represent you.
If you contact eight agents, you'll be lucky to find one who likes
your work. You can submit your script to more than one agent at a
time, but not at the η agency.
A literary agent gets a 10 to 15 percent commission on whatever
he or she sells. Good material does not get away from the readers in
Hollywood; they can spot potential movie material within ten
pages. If your script is good and worthy of production, it's going to
be found. How it's found is another matter.
It's a survival process. Your screenplay is entering the raging cur-
rent of the Hollywood river, and like salmon swimming upstream
to spawn, only a few will make it.
If finding an agent the "normal" way is not working for you, a
good way to get your work read and possibly "discovered" is by sub-
mitting it in one of the many screenwriting contests that now exist
throughout the world. A mention to a production company that
your script has been selected as one of the finalists, or winners, in a
prominent screenwriting contest like the Nichols Fellowship, Final
Draft's Big Break Contest, the Chesterfield Competition, Script-
Shark's Annual Screenwriting Competition, the Diane Thomas
Award, or any of several other competitions, carries a strong appeal
in the exclusive world of Hollywood. Each contest receives from
three to five thousand entries each year, and at present there are
over a thousand of them; just go online and Google "screenwriting
contests." Take a look at the Database of Screenwriting Contests and
Competitions (www.filmmakers.com/contests) and you'll find a list
of contests and information on financial prizes, entry dates, dead-
lines, etc. The legitimate contests offer awards of up to $10,000 cash,
— AFTER IT'S WRITTEN— 301
as well as meetings with top agents and executives in the industry.
I've been one of the judges for the Final Draft competition several
times now and can tell you that the quality of the work is high.
Many of the winners have gone on to find agents and have their
screenplays produced. That's a good percentage of success, and a
good way to break into the business.
Another way to bring your script to the attention of production
executives is called "online posting." For a fee you can send your
script to an online literary service like ScriptShark.com, a division
of Baseline StudioSystems. ScriptShark is a professional script cov-
erage and story ⊧ service specifically designed for the
entertainment industry. It works this way: You submit your screen-
play to ScriptShark and an industry reader will read and evaluate
your material, then give you professional feedback. If the reader
likes the material, he/she will post the synopsis of the story on the
service's Web site. Most ⊧ and creative executives from
major production companies check the postings daily because
they're always looking for new material; thus it's a good way to get
your material seen without going through an agent or attorney. And
indeed, ScriptShark has been instrumental in helping more than
one writer move forward professionally. Several screenwriters have
sold/optioned scripts, and ScriptShark has assisted them in setting
up pitch meetings, landing writing assignments, and getting repre-
sentation.
After you complete your screenplay, you're entering the battle-
field. Last year, more than seventy-five thousand screenplays were
registered at the Writers Guild of America, West and East. Do you
know how many movies the studios and independent production
companies made last year? Not that many: between four and five
hundred. And while the number of studio productions today is in-
creasing slightly, the number of people writing screenplays is dra-
matically increasing. As the number of people writing screenplays is
increasing, so is the cost of making movies—it costs several thou-
sand dollars a minute to make a major Hollywood production.
That's why even a medium-budget movie in Hollywood today costs
somewhere between $60 and $80 million—and the cost of prints
and advertising is mind-boggling. A Hollywood production has to
302 —SCREENPLAY—
gross at least two and a half times its negative cost to break into
profit. So, if a film cost $60 million to produce, it has to gross
more than $150 million to just to break even. Not many films gross
$150 million. And if a film doesn't open in its first or second week-
end with good numbers, it will just disappear after a few weeks. But
with the ancillary markets, foreign markets, the DVD market, mer-
chandising products, and TV and cable sales, at some point in the
future the film might still make some kind of profit.
The only thing that does not change is the story. You may have
the greatest special effects in the world, or the most popular actors
in the world, but if there is no story that engages the hearts and
minds and emotions of the audience, you don't have much of any-
thing. The story is the center, the hub, the dynamic force that holds
everything together. Sideways is a good example. Adapted from a
novel by Rex Pickett, written by Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor,
starring four largely unknown actors, it is an exceptional movie.
You can make a good movie from a good script; you can make a
good movie from a mediocre script; but you can't make a good
movie from a bad script. And that's where all your energies should
go—into writing the best script you can.
What kind of a deal can you expect to make if someone wants to
buy your screenplay? Prices vary, but a good rule of thumb is the
Writers Guild of America minimum. The minimum is broken
down into two categories: a low-budget movie that costs between
$1.2 and $5 million to produce, and a high-budget film that costs
more than $5 million. At this writing, the WGA minimum for a
low-budget, original screenplay, including a treatment, is $48,738;
for a high-budget film, $91,495. These minimums will increase each
time a new MBA (Minimum Basic Agreement) is negotiated.
Most screenwriters don't sell their first screenplay, but there are
exceptions. One of my former students at the Professional Writing
Program at USC wrote her thesis script and started sending it
around. An agent's assistant read it, liked it, and gave it to her boss;
he read it, liked it, and sent it to a friend of his, a production execu-
tive. The executive liked it, told the agent, and the agent promptly
sent it out and sold it for about $600,000. Now, the writer didn't get
— AFTER IT'S WRITTEN— 303
all this money up front. She got a few thousand dollars when
she signed the agreement, and if and when the producer gets a
production/distribution agreement, she'll get a large chunk; then,
on the first κ of principal photography, she'll get another chunk,
and there may even be a "production bonus."
An "eyeball" price for a screenplay used to be 5 percent of the
budget, though that varies substantially. If you sell the script, you'll
probably receive a "percentage of the profits," at least on paper. You
may get anywhere from 2.5 to 5 percent of the producer's net—
whatever you can get. But since hardly any films ever show a profit,
at least in the accountants' books, the chances are slim to none that
you'll ever receive any of your percentage.
If someone wants to buy your script, he/she will probably option
it for a year, with an option for a second. With an option, someone
pays you for the exclusive right to get a "deal" or to raise financing
for a certain period of time, usually a year or two. The option price
may be anything, from $1 a year to $100,000 or more—whatever
you, or your attorney, can negotiate.
It may take you more than a year after you receive your option
money to receive the full amount for the screenplay. This is the
standard-type "step deal" in Hollywood. The numbers may vary,
but the procedure will not.
If you do get an offer on your script, let someone represent you,
either an agent or an attorney. An attorney will either charge by the
hour or receive 5 percent of your earnings from the project.
You can obtain an option for a book or novel just like a screen-
play. If you want to adapt a book or novel, you must obtain the mo-
tion picture and theatrical rights to it. To find out if the material is
available, call the publisher of the hardbound edition. Ask, either
by mail, e-mail, or phone, for the subsidiary rights department.
Inquire if the motion picture and theatrical rights are available. If
they are, they'll tell you or refer you to the literary agent who repre-
sents the author. Contact the agent, who will tell you whether the
rights are available or not.
If you decide to adapt the material without obtaining the mo-
tion picture rights, you might find you've wasted your time, that the
304 —SCREENPLAY —
rights are not available and somebody else owns them. If you can
find out who has the rights, that person or company might be will-
ing to read your screenplay. Or might not.
If you want to adapt the material simply as an exercise, do it. Just
be sure you know what you're doing so you're not wasting your time.
It costs so much to make a movie today that everyone wants to
minimize the risk; that's why money paid to a writer is termed
"front money," or "risk money."
No one likes to take a risk. And the motion picture business is
one of the biggest crapshoots around. No one knows whether a
given film is going to "go through the roof," like Star Wars, Titanic,
and Lord of the Rings, and people are reluctant to put up a lot of
front money for an uncertain return. Do you know anyone who
spends money easily? Including yourself? Studios, production com-
panies, and independent producers are no exception.
Option money comes out of producers' pockets and they want
to minimize the risks. So don't expect a lot of money for your mate-
rial the first time out: It just doesn't work that way.
There are always exceptions, of course, and these are the ones
you always hear about—but they are the exceptions, not the rule.
When you really get down to it, you're writing your screenplay
for yourself first, for money second.
Only a handful of well-known and established writers in
Hollywood get enormous sums of money for their screenplays.
There are about 9,500 members of the Writers Guild, West, and only
a few are hired to write screenplays. And less than a handful earn six
figures a year. And those who do earn every penny of it.
Don't set up unreal expectations for yourself.
Just write your screenplay.
Then worry about how much money you're going to make.
Like the ancient scripture the Bhagavad Gita says: "Don't be at-
tached to the fruits of your actions." You are writing your screenplay
because it's something you want to do, not because you want to sell
it for a lot of money. It just doesn't work that way.
Keep your dreams and reality separate. They're two distinct
worlds.
A Personal Note
"Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of
things, and no good thing ever dies."
—The Shawshank Redemption
Frank Darabont
When I first started out as a writer and teacher, I asked myself what
I wanted to accomplish in my teaching and books, and the answer
was always the η: I wanted screenwriters to write better movies,
movies that would serve and inspire audiences around the world to
find their common humanity. I knew future technologies would
emerge and that there would be new, more advanced ways of telling
stories with pictures. But I felt that if people understood what
makes a good story, what makes a good screenplay, it would be of
value to filmmakers and audience alike. When I uncovered the para-
digm, I didn't really discover anything new; this concept of story-
telling has been around since Aristotle's time. I simply uncovered
what was already there, gave it a name, and illustrated how it
worked in contemporary movies.
Over the last few years there's been a significant technological
evolution going on in the world of film, and understanding the role
of dramatic structure in the screenplay has become the focus of in-
tense and international debate. The discussion rages between con-
ventional and unconventional methods of storytelling, between
linear and nonlinear means of storytelling, between Chinatown and
The Manchurian Candidate; The Lord of the Rings and The Bourne
Supremacy; Thelma & Louise and Pulp Fiction; The Shawshank
Redemption and The Hours; Y Tu Mamâ También and Run Lola Run;
and many, many more. Of course, each screenplay, each story, is
306 —SCREENPLAY—
unique and individual, but I find these debates good because they
inspire conversations of discovery, new points of departure in the
evolution of the screenplay. The essence of structure does not
change; only the form changes, the way in which the story is put to-
gether. And if that leads to new ways of telling stories with pictures,
then I've accomplished what I set out to do. So while "we may be
through with the past," as the Narrator says in Magnolia, "the past
may not be through with us."
I believe the silver screen is like a mirror, reflecting our thoughts,
our hopes, our dreams, our successes, our failures. Writing a screen-
play and going to the movies is an ongoing journey, a lifetime ad-
venture; for those images on the page and those dancing shadows of
light on the giant screen simply reflect our lives, where the end
might be the ⊤, and the ⊤ the end.
As I sit in a darkened theater, I'm sustained by an unbridled
hope and optimism. I don't know whether I'm looking for answers
to my own questions about life, or whether I'm sitting in the dark
silently giving thanks that I'm not up there on that giant screen con-
fronting the struggles and challenges I'm seeing. But I do know that
somewhere in those reflected images, I may glean an insight, an
awareness, a hope that might embrace the personal meaning of my
life.
I think about this as I look back over the footprints of my jour-
ney. I see where I began my trek, gaze over the ground I've covered,
the trails I've traversed, and understand it's not the destination but
the journey itself that is both the goal and the purpose.
Just like writing a screenplay. It's one thing to say you're going to
do it; it's another to do it.
Everybody's a writer.
That's what you'll find out. As you share your enthusiasm about
your screenplay, everybody will have a suggestion, a comment, or a
better idea about what they would have done. Then they'll tell you
about the great idea they have for a screenplay.
Try not to make any judgments about what you've written. It
might take years for you to "see" your script objectively. You may
never. Judgments of "good" or "bad" or "right" or "wrong," or com-
— A PERSONAL NOTE— 307
parisons between "this" and "that," are meaningless within the cre-
ative experience.
It is what it is.
Hollywood is a "dream factory," a town of talkers. Go to any of
the various hangouts around town and you'll hear people talking
about the scripts they're going to write, the movies they're going to
produce, the deals they're going to make.
It's all talk.
Action is character, right? What a person does, and not what he
says, is who he is.
Everybody's a writer.
There is a tendency in Hollywood to second-guess the writer;
the studio, the star, the director, the producer will all make changes
in the script that they think will "improve" it. Sometimes they do,
and sometimes they don't. Most people in Hollywood assume
they're "larger" than the original material. "They" know what has to
be done to "make it better." Directors do this all the time.
A film director can take a great script and make a great film. Or
he can take a great script and make a terrible film. But he can't take
a terrible script and make a great film.
No way.
Some film directors know how to improve a screenplay by visu-
ally tightening the story line. They can take a wordy ⊘ ⊕
of three to four pages and condense it into a tense and dramatic
three-minute ⊕ that "works" with five lines of ⊘, three
looks, somebody taking a drink, a dog barking, and an insert of a
clock on the wall. ⊯ Mann did this in Collateral; he sculpted
the original screenplay by Stuart Beattie, visually tightening it into a
tension-packed film that captures both the essence and the integrity
of the script.
That's the exception, not the rule.
The rule is that most directors and stars in Hollywood have little
or no story sense at all. They'll second-guess the writer, making
changes in the story line that weaken and distort it, and eventually a
lot of money is spent making a lousy film that nobody wants to see.
And you're only as good as your last film.
308 —SCREENPLAY —
In the long run, of course, everybody loses—the studios lose
money, the director adds a "flop" to his "track record," and the
writer takes the rap for writing a bad screenplay.
Everybody's a writer.
Some people will complete their screenplays. Others won't.
Writing is hard work, a κ-by-κ job, five or six days a week, three
or more hours a κ. And some days are better than others. A pro-
fessional writer is someone who sets out to achieve a goal and then
does it. Just like life. Writing is a personal responsibility; either you
do it or you don't. And then there's the old "natural law" of survival
and evolution.
There are no "overnight success stories" in Hollywood. Like the
saying goes, "The overnight success took fifteen years to happen."
Believe it. It's true.
Professional success is measured by persistence and determina-
tion. The motto of the McDonald's Corporation is summed up in
its poster called "Press On":
Nothing in the world can take the place
of persistence. Talent will not; nothing is
more common
than unsuccessful men with talent.
Genius will not; unrewarded genius
is almost a proverb.
Education will not;
the world is full of educated derelicts.
Persistence and determination alone
are omnipotent.
When you complete your screenplay, you've accomplished a
tremendous achievement. You've taken an idea, expanded it into a
dramatic or comédie story line, then sat down and spent several
weeks or months writing it. Inception through completion. It's a
satisfying and rewarding experience. It's been your best friend and
your worst enemy. It's kept you up nights and let you sleep like a
baby. "True art is in the doing of it," Jean Renoir said.
Commitment and sacrifice are two sides of the η coin.
— A PERSONAL NOTE — 309
Wear that proudly.
Talent is God's gift. Either you have it or you don't. Don't let sell-
ing or not selling your screenplay alter your internal state of mind,
your feelings about yourself. Don't let it interfere with the experi-
ence of writing. In the long run, you did what you set out to do. You
fulfilled your hopes and dreams, fulfilled your goal.
Writing brings its own rewards. Enjoy them.
Pass it on.
Index
action films, 187-98 Adventures in the Screen Trade
Act I (Set-Up), 2,3,21-24,27, 31,45, (Goldman), 142 agents,
84, 89,97,106-26,137,200-202 297,298-301 Albee, Edward, 269 Alice
Chinatown, 107,110-25 diagram, Doesn't Live Here Anymore, 8,12,
21,90,200 first ten pages, 23,31- 75
32,90,97,98, Aliens, 267
100,106,107,110-21,209 Allen, Woody, 29,39, 70,180,181, 278
inciting incident, 97,131 material All the President's Men, 12,35,99,107,
that must be covered, 100 page one, 181,265-66 Alonzo, John, 11
word one, 106 ⊗ point 1,26, Altman, Robert, 11 Amadeus, 271
27,28,45,64, 70, American Beauty, 2,7,23,27,29, 30,
84, 85,87,99,134-36,137,143, 40,44,86,93,96,99,130, 131,
144,145, 147,154,157-58,187, 134-36,137,138,139,168-69,
200,202,207,266 See also 186,196-98,209,219,246
⊤ (⊨) Act II American Graffiti, 8,11,12 Anderson,
(Confrontation), 3,24-25,148, Paul Thomas, 1,49,187 Anderson,
154,201 Wes, 35,98, 186,187 Andrus, Mark,
diagram, 21,201 ⊗ point II, 68 Anhalt, Edward, 204 Annie Hall,
26,27,28,85,87,99, 29,30, 39,70,86,90,93,
102,103,137, 143,144,146,147, 107,180 Antonioni,
158,170, 187 Act III Michelangelo, 40, 51-52,
(⊡), 3,26,85-86, 199
90-91,92-93,95,102-3,158, Apocalypse Now, 107,259 Apollo
179,201-2 13,64,102,209-10,246 Aristotle,
beginnings and, 102-3 Chinatown, 3,22,30,43, 54, 161 Art of Dramatic
93-95 diagram, 21,90,202 See also Writing, The (Egri), 1 Art of Fiction,
⊥(s) Adaptation, 259 The (James), 43,44 As Good as It
adaptations, 257-74 "⊜ sheet," 262 Gets, 68-69 Astin, Sean, 24 Axelrod,
biography (person's life), 271-73 George, 136
examples, 258-69 exercise, 274
getting rights, 303-4 magazine or Bacall, Lauren, 4
news article, 273-74 novels, 257-67 Ball, Alan, 23,168,186,223
plays, 269-71 sequels, 267-69 Ball, Lucille, 11
Ballad of Cable Hogue, The, 60
312 — INDEX —
Barry Lyndon, 186 Broyles, William, Jr., 64,209
Basic Instinct, 127,128-30,137,138 Buchner, Georg, 5
Bass, Ron, 186 Buchwald, Art, 295-96
Beals, Jennifer, 127 Bullitt, 40,189
Beattie, Stuart, 35,170,186,261-62, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid,
274, 307 35,47-48,86,93,181,190,
Beatty, Warren, 34,35,98 266-67
Becket, 204
⊤ (⊨), 18,21,31, 89- camera instructions, 163-64,217-19
90,97,98-99,144,268 action camera (screenplay) terms, 224-25
⊟, 107, 128,187 dramatic Cameron, James, 13,186,189,267-68,
⊟, 107, 187 endings and, 276
90-91,99-104 inciting incident, Campbell, James, 46,155,160,161
130 visual grabber, 128,130 Capote, Truman, 38
Benchley, Peter, 97 Capra, Frank, 3
Bentley, Wes, 23 Caro, Niki, 86
Benton, Robert, 34 Carola (Renoir), 6, 59
Bergman, Ingrid, 161 Casablanca, 93,160-61,165,166
Bernheim, Alain, 295-96 Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, 269
Bernstein, Carl, 266 Cercone, Janus, 13
Bhagavad Gita, 153,161, 304 Chandler, Raymond, 93,108
Bill, Tony, 11 characters(s), 2,3, 32,33,43-58
Birch, Thora, 23 action and, 32,33,41,47, 55,69,70,
Bite the Bullet, 38 81,83,206,307 attitude, 63,67-
Black Hawk Down, 13 68,81 author vs., 50 biography, 49-
Blake, ⊯, 64 51,55-57 building, 59-73,89,108-
Blanchett, Cate, 26 9 characterization vs., 55 conflicts
Blow-Up, 40 revealed visually, 48 diagrams,
Bochco, Steven, 223-24 40,48, 55,79 ⊘, 39, 72-
Bogart, Humphrey, 4,161 73,244-45 dramatic need,
Bolt, Robert, 271 25,39,40-41, 62,
Bonnie and Clyde, 34, 35, 86,93 63-65,89,136,205 exercise:
Borgnine, Ernest, 191 creating a character, 74,
Bourne Supremacy, The, 2, 7,40,86, 75-88 exercise: creating a
90,136,138,165,166,188,206, character
223,305 biography, 57-58 exercise: free-
Boyens, Philippa, 24,263-65,277-78 association writing,
Brackett, Charles, 139 52
Brando, Marlon, 4 exterior life, 48,51-55, 79,89 four
Breedlove, Craig, 37-38 essential qualities of, 63 heroic,
Bridge on the River Kwai, 7,130 160-61 hero's journey, 46,152,155
Bridges, Jeff, 56, 184,218-19 incident and, 44-46,56,70,129
Bridges of Madison County, The, 130,139 interior life, 45,48-51,89 main,
Briley, John, 271 26,47-48,107, 137,188,208 major,
Brooks, James L, 68-69,224 48
Brooks, Richard, 38
Brown, Harry, 246
— INDEX— 313
matching to existing actor, 76, 82 Conran, Kerry, 276
novel's ⊛, 19 context and content
personal life, 52-54,75-78 of a ⊕, 166-70
⊗ points and, 26,84, 85,137 of a screenplay, 22-23, 75,81,83,
point of view, 63,65-67,81 95,137,205
private life, 54-55 of a ⊟, 187
professional life, 51-52,80 Conversation, The, 259
Theory of Illumination, 71 Cooper, Chris, 56,184
transformation, 46,63,68-69 Coppola, Francis Ford, 258-59
visual description, 121 Coppola, Sophia, 40,75
what character is, 43,47 copyright, 294
writers' methods of creating, 46 Cortez, Ricardo, 265
Chayefsky, Paddy, 30 Costner, Kevin, 64
Chinatown, 11,12,13,24,25,27,28, Courage Under Fire, 140
30,35,40,44,89,90,107,108-9, Crawford, Joan, 16,218
238,246, 274, 305 Crawford, John, 60
dramatic question raised, 123 credits, 97
first ten pages, screenplay, 111-21 Crimson Tide, 102,103,131-33,137,
key incident, 110,133,148 195
main character defined in, 109-10 Cruise, Tom, 33,50,144
⊨ ⊕, 163-64,165,166 Cuaron, Alfonso and Carlos, 13
⊗ points, 147-50 Culver, Carmen, 13
set-up, 107,110-11,121-25,137 Cunningham, ⊯, 29
three endings of, 93-95 Curse of the Starving Class, 269
Citizen Kane, 29, 31-33, 53,271,278
Clayburgh, Jill, 168 Damon, Matt, 40,206
Close Encounters of the Third Kind, 7, Dances with Wolves, 64,107
99, 107,186,195 Daniels, Bebe, 265
Cold Mountain, 2,7,25,27,28,29,34, Darabont, Frank, 30,186, 305
40,64,86,90,98,130,143,165, Davis, Bette, 265
186,193,219,246,262-63 Davis, Geena, 45
collaboration, 276-88 Dean, James, 4
examples, screenplays, 277-78 Death of a Salesman, 269,270-71
filmmaking as, 219,275-76 Deliverance, 8
handling criticism, 284-85,288 Derailed (Sitgel), 261
Mission Statement, 282-83 de Souza, Steven, 189
three stages of process, 278-79 ⊘, 39, 72-73
Collateral, 35,143,144-46,155, 158, format of, 221
166,170,178-80,181,186,188, process of writing, 244-45
189,193,201,246,261-62,307 Die Hard, 189,267
screenplay, end of Act II, 170-78 Divorce—Italian Style, 180-81
comedy, 180-81,278 Divorce Wars, 13
Coming Home, 38,75,93, 107 Dog κ Afternoon, 35,40, 75,187,
Condon, Richard, 136 204
⊖, 25,41,79,80,132,196,205, Douglas, ⊯, 128,137
246-47 dramatic action, 32, 33, 39,41
internal or external, 246 character and, 47, 55-57,69, 70, 81,
visual nature of, 48 83
314 — INDEX —
dramatic action (cont'd) free-association writing, define a
diagram, 40 subject, 34 identifying ⊗
emotional, 40, 89 points, 151
physical, 40, 89,98, 107
unit or blocks of, 107,137 Family ⊗, 204
dramatic need, 25,39,40-41,62, Feldman, Phil, 60
63-65,89,205 dramatic premise, Ferguson, Larry, 189
3,24, 81, 100,107, Fey, Tina, 13,49,204
122,123,136,137,138,208 Feynman, Richard, 215
dramatic principles, 3 dramatic Field of Dreams, 71
situation, 3,107,122,208 dramatic file card system, 202-5,211-13, 214,
structure, 20-21,28,144 245-46
denned, 29 Finding Nemo, 93,276 Finding
Pulp Fiction, 138-40 Neverland, 137 Fishburne, Laurence,
two incidents and, 138 27,152 Fitzgerald, F. Scott, 11,15-
Dunaway, Faye, 34,110,207 18,218,258 Five Easy Pieces, 12,107
Duncan, Patrick Sheane, 140 Flashdance, 127-28 Fonda, Jane, 75
Ford, Harrison, 24, 102,278 format,
Eastman, Carol, 107 215-37,293-94
Eastwood, Clint, 131,261 sample, 226-37
Egri, Lagos, 1 Eliot, T. S., 267 software, 223-34,293
Elstad, Linda, 13 terms to know, 225-26 Forrest
⊥(s), 26,32-33,57,89-105,144, Gump, 107,276 Foxx, Jamie, 144
187 Frazier, Charles, 262 Freeman,
bookend, 102, 138,139 Morgan, 47 French Connection,
Chinatown, 93-95 The, 189-90 Fugitive, The, 25,189
discovering your ⊥, 101-2 Fuller, R. Buckminster, 183
down ⊥, 86
"good," 103-4 Gandhi, 271
sad or ambiguous endings, 86 Garofalo, Janeane, 67-68
tag ⊕, 101,103 Georgaris, Dean, 136,206
up endings, 86-87 English Patient, Getaway, The, 60
The, 46,90,140,166, Ghosts (Ibsen), 49-50
263 Giamatti, Paul, 87
Epstein, Julius and Philip, 160, 161 Gilroy, Tony, 40
Erin Brockovich, 86, 87 Esquivel, Gleason, Jackie, 100
Laura, 13 Eszterhas, Joe, 127-30 Godard, Jean-Luc, 20
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, 2 Godfather, The, 8, 11, 12,94,107,185,
Evans, Robert, 94 exercises 187,259
Chinatown and first ten pages, 126 Godunov, Alexander, 103 Goldblum,
creating a character, 74, 75-88 Jeff, 193 Golden Coach, The, 7
finding an ⊥, 101-2 Goldman, William, 35, 99,142,144,
finding a subject, 42 181,265-67
free-association writing, character
biography, 52,57-58
— INDEX — 315
Gone With the Wind, 16 Ibsen, Henrik, 49-50,269 I Heart
Goodman, David Zelag, 60 Huckabees, 13,49 incident, 44-
Gorillas in the Mist, 13 46,56, 70,90, 127-41
Gottlieb, Carl, 97 action-driven or character-driven,
Grady, James, 100 133
Grand Illusion, 7 defined, 127,129
Grant, Lee, 98 inciting incident, 97,129,130, 131
Grant, Susannah, 86 key incident, 129,133-36,145 In
GreatGatsby, The (Fitzgerald), 11,15, Cold Blood, 38 Incredibles, The, 276
258-59,276 Infidelity, 16,218 Invasion of the Body
Green, Walon, 60 Snatchers, 268
Groundhog κ, 140
Jackson, Peter, 24,263-65,277-78,
Hackman, Gene, 103,132 279
Haggis, Paul, 86 Jackson, Samuel L., 139 Jade, 127
Hamlet (Shakespeare), 98,161, Jagged Edge, 127 James, Henry, 43-
269 44,45,56, 71,129,
Hammett, Dashiell, 265 Hanks, Tom, 131,137
223 Hare, David, 29 Harold and James, William, 43 Jaws, 93,97,130
Maude, 13,38 Harry Potter and the Jeremiah Johnson, 8 Johansson,
Prisoner of Scarlett, 86 John, Elton, 279 Johnson,
Azkaban, 13 Harwood, Ron, Van, 3 Joyce, James, 142 Julia,
35,75 Hayworth, Rita, 168 99,107,259,263 Junior Bonner, 60
Helgeland, Brian, 107,261 Hellman, Jurassic Park, 189,192,193-96,246,
Lillian, 263 Henreid, Paul, 161 Henry 276 Juror,
the Fifth, Part 1,269 Hepburn, The, 13,260
Katharine, 3 Hero with a Thousand
Faces, The Kasdan, Lawrence, 97,278
(Campbell), 160 Heston, Kaufman, Charlie, 259
Charlton, 60,62 Higgins, Colin, Keaton, Diane, 180
38,168 High Sierra, 265 Hill, Walter, Kelley, William, 24
60 Hillenbrand, Laura, 258 Hoffman, Khouri, Callie, 44,70,157
Dustin, 11,41,266 Holden, William, Kidman, Nicole, 25
61,190 Holm, Ian, 24 Hours, The, 1, Kill Bill I and //, 7,40,41, 86,139,140
29,46, 75,86,96,97, King Lear (Shakespeare), 98-99
143,166,246,305 Kloves, Steven, 186
Howitt, Peter, 140 Koch, Howard, 160,161
humor, 189 Koepp, David, 189,192
Hunt for Red October, The, 189 Kubrick, Stanley, 7,186
Hustler, The, 100 Huston, John,
110,265 Huston, Walter, 4 Ladd, Diane, 24,110
Lady from Shanghai, The, 168
316 — INDEX —
LaGravenese, Richard, 130,186 La Mazursky, Paul, 99
Nom, 40,199 Last Samurai, The, Mazzola, Frank, 4
33,37, 75 Last Tycoon, The McCrea, Joel, 61
(Fitzgerald), 15,16 L'Avventura, 40 McDonald, Christopher, 69
Law, Jude, 25 Lawrence of Arabia, 271 McDonald's Corporation motto, 308
Leap of Faith, 13 L'Eclisse, 40 Lehane, McGillis, Kelly, 24
Dennis, 261 Lehman, Ernest, 204 McGinn, Walter, 207
Lethal Weapon, 267 Like Water for McKellen, Ian, 47
Chocolate, 13 Logan, John, 33,37 Long McQuire, Chris, 107
κ's Journey Into ι, 269 Lord of Mean Girls, 13,49, 99,204
the Rings, 2,30,44,46,47,64, Memento, 2,46,166,223
98,209,277,279,304,305 Midnight Cowboy, 38,41
The Fellowship of the Ring, 3,7,22,24, Miller, Arthur, 269,270-71
26,27,99,107,130,133-34,137 Million Dollar Baby, 86,143
The Return of the King, 3,24,86, Minghella, Anthony, 46,224,262-63
186, 193 Mission: Impossible, 192
The Two Towers, 3,24,25,193, Moore, Mary Tyler, 78
263-65 Mortensen, Viggo, 47,131
Lost in Translation, 40,71,75,86 Moss, Carrie-Anne, 27
Lost World, \92 Love Story, 40,94 Murray, Bill, 71,86
Lucas, George, 278 Music Box, 127
Mystic River, 107,136,137,261
Macbeth (Shakespeare), 98
Madsen, Virginia, 87 Neill, Sam, 193
Magee, David, 137 Network, 13,30
Magnolia, 1,2,49, 50,86,166,187,306 Newman, David, 34
Maguire, Tobey, 56,218-19 Newman, Paul, 11,47,100
Major Dundee, 59,60-63 Nicholson, Jack, 24,51-52,68-69,108
Maltese Falcon, The, 265 Nolan, Christopher, 46
Manchurian Candidate, The, 7,136, Nolan, Ken, 13
138,206,246,305 North by Northwest, 204
Mankiewicz, Herman, 31
Mankiewicz, Joseph L., 16 Mann, Obsession, 38
⊯, 144,170,307 Martin, obstacles, 3,25,41,148. See also ⊖
Mardik, 107 Mask, 13 Officer and a Gentleman, An, 107
Mastroianni, Marcello, 180 Matrix, O'Neill, Eugene, 269
The, 7,26,27,30,65,90,93, online posting, 301
107, 130,151-55,158,161,165, On the Waterfront, 4
186,187,190,276 Ordinary People, 78,137, 165,223,259
Reloaded, 155
Revolutions, 155 Pacino, Al, 40
Pakula, Alan, 11
paradigm of a screenplay, 21-30,90,
143,163, 200-202,305 diagram,
21,90,143,151,186,200,
239
See also Act I; Act II; Act III; ⊗
points
— INDEX — 317
Parker, Dorothy, 289 Passenger, Ray, Nicholas, 4
51-52 Pat Garrett and Billy the Rayfiel, David, 100
Kid, 60 Payne, Alexander, 30, 302 readers, 97-98, 217,297,298, 300
Peckinpah, Deneen, 59 Rebel Without a Cause, 4
Peckinpah, Sam, 59-62,191 Redford, Robert, 47, 100,266
Pei.I.M., 183 Penn, Sean, 136 Red River, 93
Penny, Edmund, 60 Pentimento Reeves, Keanu, 26
(Hellman), 263 Perkins, registration of script, 294-95
Maxwell, 17 Phelan, Anna Reinert, Al, 64,209
Hamilton, 12-13 Pianist, The, Remarque, Erich Maria, 16
35, 75,90,94,107 Picasso, Pablo, Renoir, Jean, 5-7,59,92,96,275-76,308
39 Pickett, Rex, 302 Picnic on the research, 36-39
Grass, 7 Pierson, Frank, Richard III (Shakespeare), 98
35,187,204 Place in the Sun, A, Ride the High Country, 60, 61
246 ⊗ points, 26-28,142-59 Robards, Jason, 50
deBned, 26 Robbins, Tim, 47,136
exercise, 151 Robertson, Cliff, 207
key incident and ⊗ point I Robinson, Phil Alden, 71-72
identical, 134-36,145 Rocky, 75,267
1,26,27,28,45,64,70,84,85,87, Rodat, Robert, 35
99,143,144, 147, 154, 157-58, Romeo and Juliet (Shakespeare), 99
187,200,202,207,266 Rosebrook, Jeb, 60
II, 26,27,28,85,87,99,102,103, Ross, Gary, 74, 185,186,187,218-19,
137,143,144,146,147,158,170, 257,258,261 Rossen, Robert, 100
187,201 Roth, Eric, 107 Roth, Tim, 102 Royal
Plummer, Amanda, 102 Poetics Tenenbaums, The, 2,7,35,40,
(Aristotle), 54 point of view (POV), 56,98,130,166,186
63,65-67,81 Polanski, Roman, 35, Rubin, Danny, 140 Ruffalo,
75,94 Polar Express, The, 276 Pollack, Mark, 170 Rules of the Game,
Sydney, 100 Portman, Natalie, 28 7 Run, The, 75,226-37 Run
Power of Myth, The (Campbell), 46, Lola Run, 305
155 Rushmore,2,93,99,130,187
production manager, 293 Russell, David O., 13 Ryan,
Professionals, The, 38 Psycho, 161 Robert, 191
Pulp Fiction, 102,107, 130,131,
138-40,143,305 Said, Fouad, 9,82
Pyne, Daniel, 136,206 Salt, Waldo, 38-39,46
Sarandon, Susan, 45
Raging Bull, 107 Sargent, Alvin, 78, 90,99,259,263
Raiders of the Lost Ark, 97,107,278 Satan Met a Lady, 265
Ramis, Harold, 140 Saul, Oscar, 59,60
Saving Private Ryan, 35,139
⊕, 160-82
action, 165
comedy, 180-81
318 — INDEX —
⊕ (cont'd) ⊘, 165-66 look on the page, 18
format and numbering, 293 novelistic techniques used in, 7
how to create with context and novel vs., 19
content, 166-70,181-82 paradigm of (see paradigm)
information in, amount of, 165 play vs., 19
length, 166 ⊗ points, 26-28,142-59
place and time, 163-64,167,168 problems of finishing, 71-72
purpose, 162,168-69 sample script, reading, 9-11,12,97-98
170-78 ⊕ heading (slug line), recommended to study, 30
163,220 shots in, 219, 224 structure, selling your work, 293-304
162,165,181 Schiffer, ⊯, 103 software program, 223-24,293
Scorsese, Martin, 11 Schrader, Paul, story line, building the, 199-214
35,38,107 Schwartzman, John, 218- subject, 31-42, 83,89
19 screenplay terms, 225-26
action or dramatic ⊟, how writing for a bankable actor, 75,82
to write, 183-98 adaptations, writing process, 238-56,290-93
204,257-74 approaches to starting, screenwriting contests, 300-301
74-88 ⊤, ⊦, end ScriptShark online posting, 301
structure, Seabiscuit, 2,56-57,74,86,184-85,187,
12,20,26,28,29-30,34,162, 209,218-19,257-58,261,288
200-202 character, 43-58 choice Searchers, The, 93 selling your
and responsibility of writer, screenplay, 293-304
34-35,169,308 collaboration, agents, 297,298-301
275-88 criticism and getting readers deals and payments, 302-3
for, entertainment attorneys, 303
290,292-93 formatting, 293,297
defined, 2-3,12,19-20,53,107 "do online posting, 301
coverage on," 10,297 dramatic options, 303, 304
structure, 29,61, 138-40, "prior access," 296-97
144 ⊥ conceived before protecting ownership, 294-95
writing, realistic expectations, 304
89-105 film studio and rejections, 297-98
production screenwriting contests, 300-301
companies, stipulations of, 12 title page, 293-94
flashback, 29,162 form and treatments, 298
formatting, 215-37 form vs. unsolicited submissions, 298
formula, 28-29 four elements Semple, Lorenzo, Jr., 100,206
needed before Sense and Sensibility, 210-11
writing, 99,144,186-87,199,282 sequels, 267-69 ⊟, 183-98
hard copies and backup computer ⊤, ⊦, end structure,
copies, 289-90,297 incident, 44- 184-85,190,195
46,56, 70,90, 127-41 length, 12,22 defined, 184,190
screenplay, Jurassic Park, 193-85
Seven, 195 Shaffer, Peter, 271
Shakespeare, William, 41,98, 106,269
Shampoo, 12,35,98
— INDEX — 319
Shark Tale, 276 dramatic need of character and, 39,
Shawshank Redemption, The, 30,46, 40-41
47,66-67,86,97, 107,136,162, exercise for developing, 42
207,209,271,305 Shepard, Sam, 269 free-association writing to find, 34
shot, 53,219,224 researching, 36-39
sample screenplay, 226-37 sources for, 35-36
Shrek, 267 Sullavan, Margaret, 16
Sideways, 30,44, 87,99,137, 302 Sunset Boulevard, 139 Suvari,
Siegel, James, 261 Silence of the Lambs, Mena, 27 Szpilman,
13,209,260 Silver Streak, 38,168 Wladyslaw, 35
Simon, Neil, 278 "Sitting" (Stevens),
104 Sky Captain and the World of Tally, Ted, 13,260
Tomorrow, Tarantino, Quentin, 40,107,138
276 Taupin, Bernie, 279
Sliding Doors, 140 Taxi Driver, II, 35, 38
Sliver, 127 Taylor, Jim, 30,302
Smith, Jada Pinkett, 145 software Taylor, Robert, 16
(Final Draft), 223-24, 293 Sound of Taymor, Julie, 224
Music, The, 204 Spacey, Kevin, 23 Tender Is the ι (Fitzgerald), 15,
Speed, 189,195 Spider-Man, 192 17-18
2,90,93,97,259,283,284 Terminator, 13, 267 Terminator 2:
Spielberg, Steven, 186,195,278 Judgment κ, 13,93,
Star Wars, 304 State of the Union, 186,189,193,267-69,276
The, 3 Stevens, Cat, 104 Stevens, Thelma & Louise, 44-45,64,69-70,
Gary, 184 Stewart, Donald, 189 86,99,107,143,151,155-58,
Stewart, Douglas κ, 107 Stone, 165,195,202-3,209,305
N. B., 60 Stone, Sharon, 129 story Thompson, Emma, 210 Thorn Birds,
line, building the, 199-214 The, 13 Three Comrades, 16 Three
file card system, 202-5,211-13,214 Days of the Condor, 13,100-101,
treatment system, 213-14 story 206-7
structure. See dramatic structure Straw Three Kings, 13
Dogs, 60 Streep, Meryl, 86,130 Thurman, Uma, 41, 67-68,140
Streetcar Named Desire, A, 269 Stuart, Titanic, 13,46,86,304 To Have and
Jeb, 189 subject, 31-42 Have Not, 4 Tolkien, J. R. R., 24
action and, 40-41 Tolstoy, Leo, 147 Towne, Robert, 24,
⊖ and, 41 35,93,98, 108-10,
defined,32 123,148,186,238 Toy Story, 276
developing out of character, 83 Tracy, Spencer, 3 tragedy, 132 Travolta,
diagram, 40 John, 139 Treasure of Sierra Madre,
The, 4,93 treatments, 213-14,298
Truth About Cats and Dogs, The, 67-68
Twohy, David, 189 2001, 7
320 — INDEX —
Unmarried Woman, An, 93,99 Writers Guild of America, 18, 294-95,
Usual Suspects, The, 107,140 298,301,304
Artists-Managers Agreement, 298
Voight, John, 41 Minimum Basic Agreement (MBA),
Vonnegut, Kurt, 29 von 302
Sydow, Max, 101 writing process, 238-56 card
system and, 245-46 "creative
Wachowski, Larry and Andy, 26 grab," 247 "The Critic's Page,"
Wallace, Earl, 24 253-54 dealing with family,
Walsh, Fran, 24, 263-65,277-78 241-42 ⊘, 2A4—A5
Warner, Jack L, 265 dream assignment and, 248
Washington, Denzel, 103,131,136,206 finding time, 239-41,242-43
Welles, Orson, 31,168 "hitting the wall" and writer's
Wells, Audrey, 67 block, 250-55 inspiration,
Whale Rider, 86 245 problem solving, 248-50
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, 269 resistance, 243-44 reviewing
Wild Bunch, The, 59,60,61,86,98, and writing "three
190-92,193 essays "291-92 rewriting,
Wilder, Billy, 16,95,139 Wilder, 245,290,292 words on paper draft,
Gene, 168 William, Warren, 265 247,283,290,
Williams, Tennessee, 269 Willis, 292 Wurlitzer,
Bruce, 140,189 Wilson, ⊯, Rudy, 60
246, 271 Wilson, Owen,
35,98,187 Wind and the Lion, The, Yoga Vasistha (Hindu scripture), 65
12 Wise, Robert, 31-32 Wisher, Yost, Graham, 189
William, 189 Witness, 24,40,102- Young, Burt, 24,94,109
3 Wood, Elijah, 24 Woodward, Young Lions, The, 204
Bob, 266 Woolf, Virginia, 75 Y Tu Mama También, 13,99,209,305
Woyzeck (Biichner), 5
Zsigmond, Vilmos, 11
Zwick, Edward, 37
SYD FIELD is the internationally acclaimed screenwriter, producer,
teacher, lecturer, and author of several bestselling books, including
Screenplay, now translated into twenty-two languages and used in
more than 400 colleges and universities across the country. He has
been a script consultant for Roland Jaffe's film production company,
20th Century Fox, the Disney Studios, Universal Pictures, and Tri-Star
Pictures, and was the American Screenwriting Association's first inductee
into the Screenwriting Hall of Fame. He lives in Beverly Hills, CA.
