“Pam Douglas takes on the complicated business of episodic television and makes
great, grand sense of it. For years she’s been a star of USC’s School of Cinematic Arts,
imparting these secrets to her students. Now these secrets have been written down. A
textbook, a how-to, a resource, an inspiration, this book has knowledge, has wisdom,
is a joy to read.”
Howard A. Rodman, Artistic Director, Sundance Screenwriting Labs
“Solid career advice and industry insights. Provides crucial foundational guidance for
the aspiring television drama writer.”
David Trueman, reviewer. Script Magazine
“Writing the TV Drama Series sheds much-needed light onto the befuddled, and oft
overlooked subject of television programming ⊧—invaluable to teachers,
students, or anyone else interested in the world of television.”
Brian Johns, Eastman Kodak Scholarship Program Director
“Written by a television insider, this well-written text takes one, step by step, through
the maze on why and how television programs make it from pitch to script to pilot to
series. Pam Douglas’ style is fun to read; she packs in information and the definite how¬
to’s of making it as a series television writer.”
Jule Selbo has been a series writer/producer on Life Goes On, Young
Indiana Jones Chronicles, Melrose Place, Undressed, Maya and Miguel and
many others
“Remarkably comprehensive and up-to-date. Writing the TV Drama Series is a candid,
enthusiastic introduction to the craft and culture of dramatic television.”
Jeff Melvoin, Executive Producer, Alias, Northern Exposure
“Pamela Douglas provides valuable insights and insider tips in this essential guide to
writing the television drama. Her step-by-step instruction to jumpstarting and surviving
a career in the television business is packed with current industry information and prac¬
tical advice from renowned industry pros. Chapter Five, which highlights working on
staff, is dead-on. It took me years to learn what Pam has so artfully and honestly laid
out. A must-read for any aspiring television writer.”
Toni Graphia, Writer-Producer, Roswell, Carnivale, Battlestar Galactica
“This book covers the waterfront in writing for dramatic television.”
Peter Lefcourt, Writer-Producer, Beggars & Choosers, Karen Sisco, Cagney
& Lacey
“A knowledgeable insight to writing TV drama. A book that is a delight to read.”
Amy Taylor, Cedar Grove Entertainment
“Right now is the golden age of TV drama, and this book is far and away the best
resource I know of for any writer wishing to work in this tremendously challenging
and rewarding field.”
Daniel Petrie, Jr., President, Writers Guild of America, West; The Big Easy,
Beverly Hills Cop
“Pamela Douglas demystifies the entire process of writing one of the most intimidating
and challenging formats — the television drama series. This comprehensive book takes
the reader on a step-by-step journey from the birth of a series concept to what happens
long after the final ⊕ has been shot. Suddenly, the impossible seems possible, thanks
to Writing the TV Drama Series. ”
Marie Jones, book reviewer, www.absolutewrite.com
“The breadth and depth of practical advice on real-world writing should enlighten and
inspire any aspiring TV drama writer. It should enlighten because it is clear, free of
jargon, and explains the business and the design of television dramas. It should inspire
because it cuts to the chase — a writer get an outline of the drama life cycle and knows
what is required from pitch to pilot to longevity of a series. The interviews with successful
writers makes this book valuable all by themselves, but there’s so much more.”
Diane Carson, Ph.D., Editorial Vice President, University Film & Video
Association
'"Writing the TV Drama Series is an invaluable resource for anyone aspiring to be a
television writer. Having worked with ⊤ writers for years, the information in
Pamela’s book is exactly what they need to know: how to write excellent scripts and
how to become savvy enough about the business to break in and get their first job
writing for television. I recommend it to every new writer I work with.”
Carole Kirschner, Head of the CBS Diversity Institute Writers Mentoring
Program; Program Director, WGA Showrunner Training Program
“Pam Douglas has just rewritten ‘the book’ on writing for television! Hard to believe
she could best herself, but the second edition of Writing the TV Drama Series is cutting
edge and covers everything from series to pilots to the new evolving relationship
between television and the Internet. It doesn’t matter if you’re a novice or a seasoned
professional, this book is a thorough education in the world of television today. A must
have for the serious television writer.”
Jack Epps, Jr., Chair of the Writing Division, School of Cinematic Arts,
University of Southern California; Screenwriter of Top Gun, Dick Tracy,
The Secret of My Success
Pamela Douglas has written ‘the’ book on writing hour episodic drama. She breaks the
process down into simple-to-understand steps, while carefully weaving the inseparable
elements of craft and business. This is a must read for any screenwriter who wants to get
sf^y in the television series loop. In the rapidly changing landscape of hour
episodic television, Pamela Douglas is on top of the trends and thinking one step ahead
of them. Essentially, she has created the gold standard for any book on this topic.”
Catherine Clinch, Contributing Editor, Creative Screenwriting Magazine-,
Publisher, www.MomsMediaWorld.com
Writing the TV Drama Series is both practical and enjoyable; I repeatedly recom¬
mend this guide to series writing to aspiring television writers. Douglas keeps it easy
to follow, and every page is loaded with valuable information that will help writers
navigate those challenging first years.”
Erika Kennair, Entertainment Diversity Representative, NBC Entertainment
Strategy Dept.
IV DRHMH
WRIIING TH[ IERI[$
How ID Succeed ri h Prdfeiinrl Wriier in IV
⊯ WIESE PRODUCTIONS
Published by ⊯ Wiese Productions
3940 Laurel Canyon Blvd. - Suite 1111
Studio City, CA 91604
(818) 379-8799, (818) 986-3408 (FAX).
mw@mwp.com
www.mwp.com
Cover design by
Interior design by William Morosi
Copyedited by Paul Norlen
Printed by McNaughton & Gunn
Manufactured in the United States of America
Copyright 2007 Pamela Douglas
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or
by any means without permission in writing from the author, except for the
inclusion of brief quotations in a review.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Douglas, Pamela.
Writing the TV drama series : how to succeed as a professional writer in TV /
Pam Douglas.
p. cm.
ISBN 978-1-932907-34-6
1. Television authorship. 2. Television serials-Authorship. I. Title.
PN1992.7.D68 2007
808.2’25-dc22
2007019737
Mixed Sources
Product group from well-managed
forests and other controlled sources
www.fsc.org Cert no. SW-COC-002283
® 1996 Forest Stewardship Council
To Raya Yarbrough and John Spencer
with love
s
'
'4
.1
■ - ■ . ■ ’■'<
Trble Of Contend
PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION xiii
INTRODUCTION 1
FROM JOHN WELLS 3
Executive Producer ER, The West Wing
CoHPiER One
WHAT'S SO SPECIAL ABOUT TV DRAMA SERIES? 7
Three Qualities of Episodic TV Series 8
Episodic Characterization 8
The “Long ⊚” 8
Anthologies 10
Series with closure 10
Serials 10
Collaboration 11
Five Myths about Television 12
Myth 1: TV Is Small Movies 12
Myth 2: TV Is Cheap 14
Myth 3: You Can’t Do That on TV 15
Myth 4: All TV Series Are the Same 16
Myth 5: Television Is a Wasteland 16
The Rules of Series TV 17
• An hour show has to fit in an hour 17
• Series deadlines are for real 18
• Drama series have a four (or five or six) act structure 19
• Each series fits a franchise 20
Ready, Set, Go 26
Summary Points 26
VIII W H I I I N 6 THE TV D fl II M II S E R I E 5 / RAM DOUGLAS
GUEST SPEAKER: DAVID MILCH 27
Executive Producer Deadwood, NYPD Blue
[KnPIER IWO
HOW SHOWS GET ON TV AND THE TV SEASON 33
Chart: Traditional Two-Year ⊧ and Production 34-35
Year One 36
April; Create Your Proposal 36
(1) Write a TV Format 36
(2) Write a Pilot 39
(3) Write a “Backdoor Pilot” 40
(4) Create a Presentation Reel 40
(5) Attach a “Package” 41
May: The Production Company 42
June: The Studio 44
July and August: The Network 46
Chart: New Series ⊧ at One Network 47
September to November: The Pilot Script 48
December and January: The Green-light 50
February to April: Pilot Season 51
May: Pick-Ups 52
• Full season
53
• Short order
53
• Midseason
53
• Backup scripts 54
Year Two
54
June: Staffing
54
July and August: Write Like Crazy
55
Chart: Sample Character Arcs for a Season 57
September and October: The Debut 58
November through March: Completing the Season 59
April: Hiatus
An Alternate Universe
51
Summary Points g2
GUEST SPEAKER: STEVEN BOCHCO 53
Executive Producer NYPD Blue, Hill Street Blues, and many other shows
TABLE D F CONTENTS I X
CHHPifR Three
HOW A CLASSIC SCRIPT IS CRAFTED 70
Tlie Dramatic ⊜ 71
A, B, C Stories 71
Chart: Basic Four-Act Grid 72
Sample Six-Act Grid 73
Seven-Act Concept 73
Four-Act Grid 74
Five and Six-Act Structure 74
Seven Acts? You Gotta Be Kidding! 7S
The Two-Page ⊕ 76
Using the Grid 77
Teasers 78
About These Excerpts 80
Excerpt from NYPD Blue, “Simone Says” 81
Analysis 97
⊨ Scenes 97
⊕ 1 99
⊕ 2 100
⊕ 3 100
⊕ 4 100
⊕ 5 101
⊕ 6 101
The Second Excerpt 102
Excerpt from NYPD Blue, “Hearts and Souls” 103
Analysis 120
Cold ⊨ 120
⊬ 121
What You Should Do Next 122
Summary Points 123
SPOTLIGHT ON WRITING PROCEDURALS 124
Model and Anti-Model
Guest Speakers: Ann Donahue, Executive Producer, CSLMiami
and Melissa Rosenberg, Co-Executive Producer, Dexter
X W R I I I N 6 IRE IV D R R M H SERIES / P R M D 0 U 6 L R S
[HDPIER fOUR
WRITING YOUR OWN EPISODE 131
“Hearing Voices” (essay) 131
Finding Your Stories 133
Breaking Your Stories 135
The Grid 138
Chart: Basic Four-Act Grid 138
The Outline 139
How to Write Your Outline 140
Outline Sample 142
Alternate Outline Forms 144
Fragment of ER outline 145
Sonny’s List 147
Your First Draft 147
Sample script format 150
If You’re Running Long 152
If You’re Running Short 153
At the End of It All... 153
Your Second Draft 154
Your Polish 155
What’s Next?
156
Summary Points 156
SPOTLIGHT ON WRITING YOUR PILOT 157
Guest Speaker: Georgia Jeffries
Supervising Producer, China Beach, Cagney & Lacey and many pilots
Chapter Five
IT'S WHO YOU KNOW: WORKING ON STAFF
167
The Staff from Hell
170
Mistake 1: Don’t separate from the staff
170
Mistake 2: Don’t mix personal and work issues
170
Mistake 3: Don’t have other plans
171
Mistake 4: Don’t work at home instead
172
Mistake 5: Don’t be precious about your script
173
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Mistake 6: Don’t “dis” the culture of the staff 173
Mistake 7: Don’t work on a series that’s wrong for you 174
The Good Staff 175
A Slice of Life 175
The Staff Ladder 178
1. Freelance Writer 178
2. Staff Writer 181
3. Story Editor / Executive Story Editor 181
4. Producer 182
5. Supervising Producer 183
6. Creative Consultant 183
7. Executive Producer / Show-Runner 184
Summary Points 185
SPOTLIGHT ON BLOGGING THE SHOWS 186
Heroes, Friday Night Lights, Grey’s Anatomy
[HRPIER llX
HOW TO BREAK IN 193
The Rules:
Write what you love 196
Don’t spec the series you plan to pitch 196
Ask the right questions about a series 197
Have the right tools 198
Have representation 198
Be in Los Angeles 202
The secret of success 202
Summary Points 204
GUEST SPEAKER: DAMON LINDELOF 205
Co-Creator, Executive Producer, Lost
X I I W fi I I I N B I H E IV D R n M R SERIES / P fl M 0 0 U G L R S
[HflPTER {EVEN
LIFE AFTER FILM SCHOOL: CAUTIONARY TALES AND
SUCCESS STORIES 211
The Class of ’97 211
Three Years Later 217
Seven Years after Graduating 221
GUEST SPEAKER: RON MOORE 230
Creator, Executive Producer, Battlestar Galactica
IN THE FUTURE: MOBISODES, WEBISODES 236
APPENDIX 1 244
Resources for You
APPENDIX 2 246
Permissions
APPENDIX 3 248
Sources
GLOSSARY 250
ABOUT THE AUTHOR 257
Phefbce to ihe Second Ediiion
In 2005 when 'Writing the TV Drama Series first came out, it was greeted
with wonderful reviews and welcomed by professionals in the television
industry — the kinds of responses any author would hope to receive. I’m
grateful for all that support. Soon the book was adopted by writing classes
at film schools and by some mentoring programs at TV networks, and had
begun to sell around the world.
So if it ain’t broke, why fix it?
Because we’re in the heart of a dynamically evolving art and business, and
like Alice in Wonderland, we have to run very fast just to stay in the same
place.
This volatility is not only about new shows, though I will discuss some
interesting series that weren’t in the first edition including Lost, Grey’s
Anatomy, Battlestar Galactica, CSI: Miami, House, and others. But so-
called “hot” shows come and go (sometimes very quickly!), and learning
to be an effective television writer isn’t about chasing each season’s hits.
In the last two years, new industry-wide patterns and opportunities have
appeared which have an impact on writers who are coming into the busi¬
ness. For example, original pilots by novices are being sought by agents
and producers, so I’ve added a section on writing your own pilot.
Mobisodes and webisodes not only interface with current series, but
also open fresh creative prospects for writers. So I’ve added material on
“eTV” (enhanced TV) and other emerging outlets to a final chapter, “In
the Future.”
Kinds of storytelling are in flux too. At the same time as venues open,
networks are scrambling to adjust, some changing from the traditional
four-act structure to five or even six acts. Strongly serialized dramas, like
24, Lost, and the great shows on HBO proved that “long narratives”
would draw and hold devoted viewers. But they also spawned a number
of network serials that didn’t succeed, while procedurals like CSI (in all
xiii
X I V WRITING TV 0 R R M H 5 T H I E S / P R M 0 0 U G L R S
its incarnations) have continued to top the ratings. So in this edition I’ve
added a section on writing procedurals.
Meanwhile, increasing fragmentation of the audience on specialized cable
channels has enabled niche programming that would never have made
the cut in the era of three networks. That narrow-casting is producing
adventurous, high-quality products like Battlestar Galactica (on the SciFi
Channel), The Shield (on FX), and Dexter (on Showtime).
If opportunities seemed promising when the first edition was published,
they’re blossoming now. It’s a great time to write for television.
More than a thousand students have come through my classes in the
two decades I’ve taught at the U.S.C. School of Cinema-Television (now
re-named the USC School of Cinematic Arts). At the same time, my profes¬
sional career was growing to include story editor and producer credits
on television dramas, the Humanitas Prize, and awards and nominations
including Emmys, Writers Guild, and American Women in Radio and
Television, and a position on the Board of Directors of the Writers Guild.
Always, my screenwriting and teaching have complemented each other.
I bring my working life into the classroom: What is it like to be actively
breaking stories, writing, rewriting, giving and getting notes, seeing how
your scripts translate to screen? I clearly recall freelancing television
episodes, but I also know how the other side of the desk reacts to pitches
because I’ve been in both chairs. I’ve written for networks, cable, syndica¬
tion, public TV, primetime and off-prime, and for virtually every dramatic
genre. In my class, students learn from someone who has been there.
Imagine you’ve stopped by a typical episodic drama class in the ⊦
of a term. Ten students sit at a table, scripts and DVDs from our in-class
library — House, Big Love, Lost, Battlestar Galactica, Grey’s Anatomy,
The Sopranos, Nip/Tuck, C.S.I. — among others in the ⊦. The class
has not begun, but people are returning scripts and videos, reaching for
one they want next. Then we start.
Someone asks why a story was left hanging at the end of an episode she
saw, and I discuss the 22-hour “long ⊚” of a season, or how char¬
acter arcs cross multiple episodes, or stories that are closed on one level
but not another.
Now we’re warmed up. The class operates like the writing staff of a TV
series in which writers suggest improvements on each other’s work, while I
function as “show-runner,” or final authority on revisions. The standard is
professional quality, and our models are the most brilliant, incisive, daring
scripts on networks or cable. Since I hold the bar so high, no one brings in
trivial subjects. Because television drama frequently reflects complex and
wrenching problems in contemporary society — such as racism, sexism.
1
2 W fl I I I N 6 THE IV D R R M fi 5 E R I E 5 / P R M D 0 U 6 L R S
violence, spirituality, and sexual identity — the writers must confront
these issues with honesty at the same time as they learn their craft.
On other occasions, I come to class in the midst of my writing, full of
some creative problem, and let the class in on my process. Or I might
screen a clip and deconstruct its elements and discuss how it fits within
the total structure of a show. All this leads to finished scripts that aim to
be competitive with the best drama written for screen.
That’s my goal for you too as you work with this book. My students are
sophisticated, smart, dedicated, and some are wonderfully talented. Still, I
was initially surprised at what they didn’t know. When I add my summer
seminars which are open to the public, I discovered strange misconcep¬
tions about television, the art and craft of TV drama, and the life of a
working writer. That’s one of my reasons for creating this book, since I’m
uniquely aware of what ⊤ writers want and need to learn.
My approach is practical: The better you write the more work you’ll get.
Give ’em better than they deserve because you deserve the best, even if your
first assignment is on something you leave off your resume years later.
As you go through this book, imagine you’re in my classroom. I’ll be
talking to you, even asking you questions. Though I can’t hear your
answers, I suggest you treat the chapters interactively anyway so you’ll be
applying the principles.
Between chapters and in “Spotlights” I’ve invited illustrious “guest speakers”
to address you. We’re proud to host: John Wells (£R, The West Wing),
David Milch (Deadwood, NYPD Blue), Steven Bochco {Hill Street Blues,
NYPD Blue), Ann Donahue (CSI), Melissa Rosenberg [Dexter), Georgia
Jeffries [China Beach and pilots), Damon Lindelof [Lost), Ron Moore
[Battlestar Galactica) and other insightful television writer-producers.
Towards the end, we follow a group of former students from graduation
through breaking into the business and launching careers as television
writers. It’s an opportunity to learn from writers in the trenches.
And the final chapter takes you into the future with a discussion of
emerging venues and possibilities that await new writers.
Throughout this book, you’ll find useful tools, a complete map of the TV
series terrain, and lessons from those who have traveled it before. But,
ultimately, the way to write better is to be true to what’s real in your
stories and to write more. You’re not alone — I’ll show you how.
From
John Wellj
John Wells is Executive Producer of ER, The West Wing, Third Watch,
and past president of the Writers Guild of America, West.
PD: If you could go back in time and talk to your own young self when
you were a student in film school or college, what do you know now
that you wish you’d known then about writing and producing television
series?
JW: I wish Fd known how long it was going to take. You come out and
you sort of assume it’s going to be a couple-of-years process and you don’t
really start making any headway until you’ve written about a foot and a
half of material, measured up off the floor. That’s when you really start to
think of yourself as a writer in the way you look at the world. It’s a craft
that takes a tremendous amount of time.
I wish I had more of a sense that it was much more like learning to play
a musical instrument. After four or five years you start to not embarrass
yourself. It takes 10 years before you can even begin to call yourself profi¬
cient. And that’s very difficult for students because they’ve been through
12 years of primary school, four years of college, and often a couple of
years of graduate school and they think they’ve already done 16, 18 years
of education, so they want to go do it right now, though they’ve actually
just started.
It looks deceptively easy from the outside. If you look at the lowest
common denominator you think “I can do that.” The craft that’s neces¬
sary — the time it takes to have enough trial and error and to keep going
with it — that takes a very long time to develop. I’m very suspicious of
writers who haven’t been writing for 10 years. I will often ask people for
3
4 WRITING THE TV 0 fl fl M fl SERIES / P R M 0 0 U 6 L fl S
three or four or five pieces of material if I’ve read one thing of theirs that
I like. I know they’ve given me the thing they’re proudest of, and I’m
looking to see the growth, and how much they’ve done and how much
they’ve committed themselves to the long-term process of writing.
I’ve supervised well over 600 scripts, and personally written well over
100, and I still finish each one disappointed in my work. It’s a life-long
endeavor, never something you succeed at. I’ve been working profession¬
ally for 20 years and I’m always learning something new every day about
writing.
PD: You could have chosen to write in any medium. Why did you choose
television?
JW: The feature world, which I remain involved in, is not a medium,
generally, where you’re able to write about character in the depth I like to
write about character. There are characters now on ER whose growth I’ve
been writing about for years. I don’t mean to compare myself to Dickens,
but I heard Steven Bochco talk about that years ago, when he explained
that what he was trying to do on Hill Street was like the way Dickens
published a chapter a week.
And subject matter is different in television. The kinds of things we can
write about seriously are more appealing than most of what you’re offered
to do in features.
Beyond that, it’s much easier to be involved creatively in your work in
television than in feature films. It happens a lot faster, so there’s not time
for as many cooks in the kitchen. But also you get to see your work and
see it quickly. I’ve done work on features that haven’t been produced for
years, and [when asked for another draft] it becomes hard to remember
what you had in mind when you first wrote it three years ago. In televi¬
sion, you’ll finish a script and see dailies on it 10 days later.
PD: People talk about how television is changing now with cable and
the influence of TiVo. What does the future hold for the art of television
drama?
JW: The technology makes for short-term changes, but we’re still doing
what Chaucer was doing a thousand years ago. We’re still writing stories.
I think we are structured in such a way that we’re interested in people, and
we’re interested in hearing their stories and metaphors for our own lives
and going through cathartic experiences. That hasn’t changed.
FROM JOHN WELLS 5
I actually think it’s a more exciting time for a writer because there are
many more ways for your material to get made. You can write something
and make it on a digital videocam that you buy at a store. You have an
opportunity to work on shows on cable which have content you can’t
do on broadcast television. The opportunities are limitless. There isn’t as
much money to be made doing it, but you have thoughts and impressions
about the human experience you want to share with others. This is the
way to share it, and now there are more opportunities than ever.
PD: Any final words of wisdom for a ⊤ writer?
JW: It’s going to take a lot longer than you think, and don’t give up. Just
keep writing.
There was a guy I went to USC with whom I used to see every year at a
New Year’s party. And every year I’d ask him what he was doing. He told
me what he was working on, and I realized it was the same thing he was
working on last year. That went on for three or four years. You need to be
writing, at the minimum three or four specs a year, different shows. And
you need to do that while you’ve got whatever day job you have to keep
you alive. That’s the sort of commitment you need to really succeed.
Even my friends who came out of school and immediately got jobs or
sold screenplays — within three or four years they ended up having to
do their period of four or five or six years slogging. I really don’t know
any talented writers who ended up being successful who haven’t had a
struggle. That’s just what being an artist is all about.
» * * t • ■ > »
tm$ .* 'I*
1 •»< - ' ■■
1-. t n»*
__ ■ ■'•*.■-*•«■)»*
' < Hw - ;:j ' - • *L
* »«•-■ J ' . •'
.»*■#'••■.rtv''*' • '*'■
r ■ ■ * .«•■.•:
, )« ■ -if.
»«*
. . Ill ^,‘* ^
»* ,1J. . -.
- ■* W >yt >4 »
t ♦ 1*^ ^ •4f ..liH • ■•■
.. fjk . . -- ■-*••. •r“ .. I *> r •
f v . I, -,«• V/%. -■ • i-MI
< « ■'
|»» * V I ' I ' (#* j'' ■'■* rid •r'- *r^ f»-'t .A * ■*»
r> , •“* i»i •. ■/ -**»«' ‘h*** •- ^*4'-' ■^^
"! •/»*•■»I-' ^.A#» »»¥!■( ••*■-♦-,, > ., ’I ;T||t|
r» ■*. ■^"IEi•i’' i*' irtfc.*'• * • u'i r! ■•• *i** ' * ** ’i‘
<kr
r-iT
*- * - 'J S^t!. 4jk*^.bt
hMr*
JD {PECim HBOUI
TV DRnMIl Teriee?
Imagine the power.
Picture the whole world dotted with hundreds of millions of homes glowing
with the blue light of TV sets. Inside each home — your own home, for
example — visitors tell stories about their dreams and problems, loves
and rages, their thrills and their losses. You care about them, probably
more than you admit; you even talk about them when they’re not around
— after all, they come every week. Sometimes they’re broiling over issues
in the news. Or sick and scared about that, or lying, or brave. At one time
they were attacked and fought back and barely survived. But no matter
what, they’ll be back next week, your same friends, there with you in your
most vulnerable place, at home when you’re tired after work. Intimate.
Maybe one of them is Tony Soprano, the mob boss, asking Uncle Junior,
“I thought you loved me,” and watching Junior’s lip quiver, unable to
answer. Or Detective Andy Sipowicz of NYPD Blue, just reconciled with
his adult son, lifting the sheet off a corpse, to discover his son. On West
Wing, you were surprised by a swell of pride when reason triumphed
in a hard-won Supreme Court appointment. You were drawn into the
D.A.’s moral quandary when an old man can’t be stopped from confessing
revenge against a swindler who took his house, on Law and Order. And
you couldn’t resist rooting for the nurses on ER in the midst of tragedies
as they dealt with an irascible patient by pushing his gurney in the hall and
“taking his temperature” with a plastic flower in his rear. Joy and tears up
close and personal.
7
W R I n N B I H E IV 0 R fl M fl U R I E 5 / P H M 0 0 U E L R I
Think about the impact. Once you understand the way viewers relate to
their favorite shows, you’ll get a feel for the kinds of stories that work and
how to wield this awesome power.
Ml Oyflllllh OF [PI5BIICIVIFI1IF5
Among the traits that distinguish primetime series (both dramas and
comedies) from other kinds of screenwriting, three are especially signifi¬
cant for writers: endless character arcs, the “long ⊚” for serials,
and the collaborative process.
EPISODIC CHARACTERIZATION
In feature writing you were probably told to create an arc for your protag¬
onist that takes him from one state to its opposite; the character struggles
towards a goal and once that is attained, your story ends. Someone who is
unable to love is changed when a mate/child/friend appears and, through
fighting the relationship, the character is finally able to love. Or someone
who has been wronged seeks revenge and either achieves it or dies for the
cause. All fine for movies that end. But series don’t.
So how do you progress a ⊚ without an arc? Well, you create a
different kind of arc. Remember what I said about series characters being
more like people you know than figures in a ⊗. If your friend has an
extreme experience, you continue knowing him after the event. You’re
invested in the process, not just the outcome.
But watch out — this does not mean the characters are flat. Your continuing
cast should never be mere witnesses to the challenge of the week. On the
contrary, characters who are not transformed by the ⊗ need something
instead: dimension. Think of it like this: instead of developing horizon¬
tally towards a goal, the character develops vertically, exploring internal
conflicts that create tension. The character may be revealed incrementally
within each episode and throughout the series, but viewers need to depend
that Meredith Grey or Tim Riggins are the same people they knew last
week. Does that mean those characters are without range or variation? Of
course not, and neither are your friends.
THE "LONG ⊚"
Episodic drama comes in three forms: anthologies, series with “closure,”
and “serials.”
WHAT'S 5 D 5 P E C I H L H B D U I T V D R B M B SERIES? 9
The Sopranos
w R I T I N B TV D R fl M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P R M 0 0 U G I R S
Anthologies are free-standing stories, like short movies, unconnected to
other installments except by a frame. Twilight Zone had a continuing
host, style and franchise, but the casts were different each week. As the
precursor of today’s episodic television, anthologies flourished in the
1950s when showcases like Playhouse 90 presented literature more like
stage plays. But anthologies are rare today, and we’re not focusing on
writing them.
Series with ciosure — or “modular” episodes — have continuing main
casts but new situations which conclude at the end of each episode; They
close. Most series have some closure, even if they continue other story lines.
Any Law and Order and any CSI close each episode. Syndicators prefer
this kind of show because they buy large packages (the first four seasons,
or 88 episodes is typical) and sell them to local and overseas stations who
may re-run them in any order. If the episodes have no “memory,” that
is, no significant ⊧ of ongoing relationships, the order of the
episodes isn’t supposed to matter. Or so the thinking goes.
Not as easy as it sounds. When a series is well developed, the writers and
fans follow the characters and find it hard to resist their history as it inevi¬
tably builds over time. In its early seasons. The X-Files had a new alien or
paranormal event each week, and though the romantic tension between
Mulder and Scully simmered, it didn’t escalate. Then interest from viewers
pushed more and more of a relationship and turned the partners into
lovers by the end of the series. Most X-Files episodes can still be enjoyed
in any order, but serial storytelling is beguiling.
Serials: Now, there’s a dirty word in some minds because it also describes
soap operas. Daytime soaps like The Young and the Restless and General
Hospital have had loyal viewers and succeed according to their own aims.
But primetime writers and producers don’t like to be identified with them
because the heightened melodrama (which is needed to drive the story
enough to run five days a week), and the speed with which episodes are
produced too often result in stereotypical characters, ⊘ that lacks
subtlety, and unbelievable situations.
Can the same be said about primetime serials? Decades ago, shows like
Dallas and Knots Landing were described as nighttime soaps, and did
have the overblown romanticism and hyperbole typical of their daytime
cousins. But most primetime series aren’t like that anymore. Today’s serials
include award-winning dramas on HBO: Big Love, The Sopranos, Rome,
The Wire. And most of the acclaimed series on networks and other cable
WHAT'S S D SPECIAL A A D A T TV A A A M A SERIES? 1 I
outlets including 24, Lost, and Grey’s Anatomy use serialized storytelling
along with closed stories.
A serial is any drama whose stories continue across many episodes in
which the main cast develops over time. It’s called the “long ⊚,”
the epitome of what episodic television can offer: not one tale that ties up
in an hour or two but lives that play out over hundreds of hours. Think
about it — as a writer you have the opportunity to tell a story that is so rich
that it expands for years. At the ⊩ of NYPD Blue’s 12-year run,
the series produced around 250 hours. That’s not 250 police cases (actu¬
ally two or three times that many because each episode includes several
cases); the significance is 250 hours of living with Detective Sipowicz and
the rest of the cast, 250 hours dealing with the consequences of 12 years
of experiences.
As you watch television, look for the way closed stories mingle with the
long ⊚. Not only will that give you insight into the show’s construc¬
tion, but also a larger sense of what a story can be.
COLLABORATION
If you go on to write for television, you’ll never work alone. Series are
like families, and even though each episode is written by one writer, the
process is collaborative at every step. Writers sit around a table to “break”
each story, then review the outline and all the drafts together. Sometimes
a writer may be placing a long arc in many episodes rather than writing
a single episode. On ER, medical consultants, some of whom are also
writers, supply emergency room scenes. And sometimes one writer may do
a revision or ⊘ polish on another’s script. The image of the isolated
artist creating his precious screenplay secretly in the night isn’t the reality
of life on a series. (Though that’s not to say staff members don’t write
their drafts privately, or that they aren’t artists — some are brilliant!)
You may have heard the comment that happy families are all alike but
each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way. Television staffs are
full of writers, so how normal can they be? Dysfunctional staff families
abound, but so do creative mixes that are encouraging and inspiring. As a
beginner, you’ll learn tremendously on a staff. Read Chapter Six for how
staffs function and tips for getting along and getting ahead.
But first, if you’re going to write for TV, you need to dump some mis¬
conceptions.
I 2 WRITING THE TV 0 R fl M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P R M D 0 U G L R S
Five Myths HsoyT Television
MYTH 1: TV IS SMALL MOVIES
Not really, though that does seem to make sense on the surface. Both TV
dramas and movies deliver stories played by actors who are filmed and
shown on screens. And many filmmakers — writers, directors, actors,
cinematographers, editors and so forth — work in both theatricals and
television. In fact, ⊯ Crichton and Steven Spielberg were involved
with TV veteran John Wells at the inception of ER. Action movie producer
Jerry Bruckheimer does C.S.I. Alan Ball, who wrote the movie American
Beauty, became executive producer of Six Feet Under. West Wing creator
Aaron Sorkin wrote the Academy Award-nominated movie A Few Good
Men (which, in turn, was an adaptation of his play).
A funny experience on a series brought home how connected film and TV
writing can be. My agent told me that several writers had quit the staff
of a show I admired. I couldn’t figure out why — the series was winning
awards, it was renewed, and the characters had plenty of potential. Not to
mention the writers were making a bundle. Maybe the show-runner was a
monster. But I met him, a bright guy, no crazier than anyone else in town.
So I went to work.
First day in my new cubicle, I waited to be called to a story meeting, or
given an assignment, or a script to re-write. Nothing. I read the news¬
paper. Second day, I observed everyone else writing furiously on their
office computers. Why was I left out? Had I offended someone? My mind
fell to dark ruminations.
Finally, I popped into the cubicle next to me — “What are you writing?”
The writer looked up, wide-eyed, didn’t I know? Everyone was working
on their features. “He wants to do it all himself,” my fellow staffer said
about the executive producer. “He keeps us around to bounce ideas and
read his drafts. But he thinks it’s quicker if he just writes the show.” There
I was on a TV staff and everyone was writing a movie. Pretty soon the
studio pulled the plug on our feature scholarships, and that was the end of
that job. But that illustrates an axiom: a writer is a writer, whether televi¬
sion or feature or for any new media.
Still, the more you know about features and television, the more unique
each is. People go to movies to escape into a fantasy larger than life with
spectacular stunts, effects and locations. At upwards of ten dollars per
W H R T ' 5 5 0 5 P E C I fl L fl 0 0 0 1 TV 0 R fl M R SERIES? 1 3
ticket, audiences demand lots of bang for their bucks. And teenage boys
— a prime target for features — relish the vicarious action that big screens
do so well. If you saw Lord of the Rings re-run on television, or rented a
summer blockbuster, the armies of thousands were reduced to ants. Some
bubbles are not meant to be burst.
From the ⊤, theatrical features grew out of shared entertain¬
ment — think of crowds watching vaudeville. Television didn’t intend
that kind of experience. In fact, the parent of TV is more likely radio. A
generation before television, families gathered around their radios for vital
information, whether the farm report or the war. And radio dramas were
character-driven; beloved familiar personalities scrapping and coping with
each other, bringing someone (often women, hardly ever teen boys) to
tears or laughter every day. Close, personal, at home.
And real. Before radio, people got their information about the world
from newspapers. That lineage continues in what we expect of television.
Partly because (as they say on one of the networks) “more people get their
news from us than any other source,” television becomes fused with what
people need to know and what they believe is fact. So it’s not an escape,
not fantasy, but the fabric of daily life.
Oh, you’re saying what about Star Trek or Smallville, for just two exam¬
ples — they’re hardly real. Well, I did a brief turn on Star Trek: The Next
Generation, and I can tell you the producers were interested in stories
about people — people who lived in a distant environment with futuristic
gadgets, yes, but the core was relationships among the crew, testing personal
limits; and, at its best, the exploration wasn’t distant galaxies but what it
means to be human. As for Smallville, the young Clark Kent is a metaphor
for every teenager who struggles with being different, figuring out who he
is and how to be with his friends. This is heart stuff, not spectacle.
Which is not to say you should write without cinematic qualities. The X-
Files used to open with visually tantalizing images that drew the viewer
into the mood and quest of the episode. But even there, the focus was
personal jeopardy — a foot sinking into the ground, someone blinded by
a light or lost amidst eerily rustling branches. Immediate, direct, close.
Screenwriting students are taught to write visually and minimize talk —
“play it don’t say it.” Generally, that’s good advice, so I was writing that
way when I started in television. Then a producer pointed to a chunk of
description (which I’d thought was a clever way of replacing exposition)
I 4 WRITING IRE TV 0 R R M H SERIES / P R M 0 0 U G I R S
and said, “Give me a line for this — they may not be watching.” Not
watching? That’s my brilliant image up there!
But come back to the reality of the medium. It’s at home, not a darkened
theatre. No one is captured, and the viewers might be eating, painting
toenails, doing homework — you know how it goes. As the creator, of
course you want to make the screen so beguiling they won’t turn their eyes
away, but if the “viewers” have to get a point, put it in ⊘. People
may be listening to the TY more than watching it. That’s not such a bad
thing. Whereas viewers are distanced from the screen in theatrical films,
voyeurs to other people’s stories, television drama has the effect of people
talking to you, or at least talking to each other in your home. It’s compel¬
ling in a different way.
When students ask whether I advise them to write for features or televi¬
sion, after I tell them to try both, I ask about their talent. Do they have
an ear for the way people speak naturally? Are they able to convey the
illusion of today’s speech while actually writing tight, withheld lines? Can
they write distinct voices for dissimilar characters? If they don’t have the
talent for effective ⊘, I nudge them away from TV because action
would be easier for them.
No, television is not a small version of movies; it’s a different medium; and
it’s bigger. Yes, bigger. The most successful features are seen by millions of
people in theatres, and more when the movies rent as videos and re-run
on TV. But even a moderately successful series, if it continues for enough
years to go into syndication, is seen by hundreds of millions — all those
blue lights glowing from windows around the world.
MYTH 2: TV IS CHEAP
Well, I don’t think $2 to $10 million to produce a single hour is all that
cheap, or around $100 million for a full season. Sure, when you compare
that television hour to a two-hour feature whose budget is more than the
GNP of several small countries, maybe it doesn’t seem so much. But at
the high-end no one’s hurting in TV, and for writers, being on a series
is a way to get rich (more about staff work in Chapter Six). Of course,
not all series are on the high end, and the business side of television is
more like a manufacturing company than an entrepreneurial venture. Pay
scales (at least the floors) are set by guilds and unions and a budget for
the year is managed by the show’s executives. It’s a lot of money ⊮’s
all allocated.
W H R T ' 5 5 0 SPECIAL fl 0 0 0 T TV 0 R fl M fl SERIES? I 5
So towards the end of a season, some shows do tighten their belts. One
show-runner gave me a single instruction as I joined his series: “It doesn’t
rain in this town.” After he had sprung for high-profile guest stars, over¬
time shooting, and sweeps week specials, he couldn’t afford to make rain
on the set for the rest of the year. You may have noticed another sign of
overrun: the “wrap-around” episode — the one where the main char¬
acter relives his previous episodes. Chances are, those memories were
triggered not by nostalgia but by the need to use clips instead of spending
on production.
That said, series budgets are ample for what you want dramatically
within the world of the show. As a writer, your investment needs to be
in the quality of the story and depth of feelings you can elicit rather than
production dazzle, so avoid: distant or difficult locations, special effects,
extreme stunts, large guest casts, crowd scenes, and CGI (computer-gener¬
ated images) unless those are part of your series. If you write them, they’ll
probably be cut, and by tightening you gain focus on the main characters,
which are the strength of television drama.
MYTH 3: YOU CAN'T DO THAT ON TV
Come on, you can do anything on cable television — language, nudity,
controversial subjects or lifestyles, experiments in ways of telling
stories. However, broadcast stations are licensed by the FCC (Federal
Communications Commission) which obligates them to operate in the
public interest. So local stations are susceptible to pressure from groups
which might threaten their licenses when they’re up for renewal; and the
networks, which also own stations, are sensitive to public mores — though
those cultural standards change with time. Certainly, public norms have
come a long way since the 1950s when married couples had to be shown
fully dressed and sleeping in separate beds. Now even the least adven¬
turous television is closer to real life. And none of this applies to HBO,
Showtime, or the other cable outlets.
The old days of censorship are past... but not entirely. In 2004, network
censors stunned the creators of ER. It involved one episode where an
81-year-old woman is having a medical exam — an emotional moment
in which the elderly woman learns about cancer, and some of her aged
breast is visible. Essential for the dramatic impact of the ⊕, the show’s
producers argued, but the network pressured them to re-edit the ⊕ so
the breast could not be glimpsed.
1 G W fl I I I N 0 THE TV 0 R II M R SERIES / P R M D 0 II 6 I R S
A new level of accommodation was reached when HBO’s bold drama
The Sopranos was sold into syndication on A&E. Having planned ahead,
HBO filmed alternate scenes and lines during the original production.
While most of the “sanitized” episodes retain their power, some bizarre
moments result like Paulie (a tough gangster) cursing about the “freakin’’
snow while they go off to kill someone. That sort of thing drives some
serious writers to cable where they can practice their art without interfer¬
ence, although even there, Sci-Fi Channel’s Battlestar Galactica makes do
with “frack.”
So, yes, on broadcast television some limits still exist. But here’s my advice:
Don’t censor yourself as you write your first draft. Have your characters
talk and behave the way people actually do today. Stay real. If a word
or image has to be edited, fix it later, but keep the pipeline open to how
people truly are because that’s the source of powerful writing.
MYTH 4: ALL TV SERIES ARE THE SAME
I once heard that statement from a producer who’d been successful in the
era before audiences had 400 channels to surf. Now, with competition
for fresh programming, a show that rests on formulas and conventional
prototypes risks going unnoticed, cancelled after four episodes.
But television series do follow rules, and you’ll find a list of them at the
end of this chapter.
MYTH 5: TELEVISION IS A WASTELAND
In 1961, Newton Minnow, an FCC commissioner, declared television a
“vast wasteland,” and the epithet stuck. Minnow was referring to shows
such as Bonanza, The Flintstones, and Mr. Ed in an era when three
networks, each smaller than now, shared airwaves that were considered
a scarce commodity dedicated to informing or elevating the public. The
talking horse just didn’t do it for him.
Well, half a century later, part of the wasteland has become a garbage dump
strewn with fake jilted lovers beating up on each other on certain daytime
shows. The rest ranges from televangelists to pornography, sports to scien¬
tific discoveries, wannabe singers to singing animals, and includes fiction
of all kinds that may be funny, freaky, fascinating or familiar. And some
is brilliant literature, on a par with the greatest writing and filmmaking
created anywhere. Those are the shows I focus on when teaching hour
drama because I believe you learn best if you learn from the best. As to the
WHAT'S SO SPECIAL A B D A I TV DRAMA SERIES? I 7
wasteland — with more than 400 channels, and access to programming
from all over the world, television is whatever you choose to watch.
Nor is television monolithic even within American primetime. I’ve heard
people disparage TV as aimed at 12-year-olds. I answer, yes, TV shows are
aimed at 12-year-olds if you watch at eight o’clock. Traditionally, the prime¬
time evening, from 8:00 to 11:00 PM, was divided into components:
8:00 — family sitcoms featuring children and cartoon-like action hours;
some family-oriented variety shows;
8:30 — more sitcoms though not necessarily with children; variety shows
continue;
9:00 — sophisticated comedies; hour dramas that are thoughtful, romantic,
inspirational or teen; demographic favors women (TV movies air from 9
to 11);
10:00 — the most sophisticated hour dramas for adults; serious news
magazines.
At least that’s how it used to line up. Now with TiVo and recording,
you can view anything at any time, and cable re-runs its programming
throughout the week. Still, the schedule hints at the range of primetime.
Most talented writers want to work on the 9:00 or 10:00 PM shows, and
in fact those are the ones I recommend learning. When you’re out in the
business, though, you may find more openings at 8:00 o’clock and in less
lofty outlets at first. That’s okay, you have to start somewhere, and in
Chapter Six you’ll read about breaking in.
IHE Ryib OF 5ERIE5IV
• AM HOUR SHOW HAS TO FIT IN AM HOUR.
Actually, a network hour is less than 50 minutes, with commercial breaks,
though pay cable may be longer, and syndicated hours are shorter. Usually,
scripts for drama series are around 55 to 60 pages, though a fast-talking
show like The West Wing sometimes went to 70 pages. On networks that
break shows into five acts plus a teaser, writers are stuck with reduced
screen time, and find themselves with eight-page acts and scripts coming
in around 48 pages; and some six-act scripts may be only 42 to 45 pages.
Each script is timed before production, and if it runs long (despite the page
W R I I I N E THE IV 0 R fl M R 5 E R I E J / P R M D 0 U 6 L R S
count), the writer needs to know what to trim in ⊘ or which action
to ellipse; if it runs short, where a new ⊜ could add depth or a twist, not
padding. And you need the craft to get it revised overnight, which leads
to the next rule:
• SERIES DEADLINES ARE FOR REAL.
Your show is on every week, and that means there’s no waiting for your
muse, no honing the fine art of writing-avoidance, no allowing angst to
delay handing in your draft. If you can’t make the deadline, the show-
runner has to turn over your work to another writer.
From the time your episode is assigned, you’ll probably have one week
to come in with an outline, a few days to revise it, two weeks to deliver
the first draft teleplay, a gap of a couple of days for notes, then one week
to write your second draft — a total of around six weeks from pitch to
second draft (though polishes and production revisions will add another
couple of weeks or so). Maybe that sounds daunting, but once you’re on a
staff you’re living the series, and the pace can be exhilarating. You’ll hear
your words spoken by the actors, watch the show put together, and see it
on screen quickly too.
It’s fun until the nightmare strikes. On a series, the nightmare is a script
that “falls out” at the last minute. It may happen like this: the story seems
to make sense when it’s pitched. The outline comes in with holes, but the
staff thinks it can be made to work. Then they read the first draft and see
the problems aren’t solved. It’s given to another writer to fix. Meanwhile
the clock is ticking. Pre-production, including sets, locations, casting have
to go ahead if the script is going to shoot next week. Tick tock. Another
draft, and the flaw — maybe an action the lead character really wouldn’t
do, or a ⊗ element that contradicts the episode just before or after, or a
forced ⊡ that’s not credible — now glares out at everyone around
the table. Yet another draft, this time by the supervising producer. Tick
tock. Or maybe it’s not the writer’s fault: the exact fictional crisis about a
hostage has suddenly occurred in real life so the episode can not be aired.
The script has to be abandoned — it “falls out.” Meanwhile, the produc¬
tion manager is waiting to prep, and publicity has gone out.
I once heard a panel discussion where a respected show-runner told this
very nightmare. The cast and crew were literally on the set and absolutely
had to start shooting that day for the episode to make the air date. But
they had no script. In desperation, the show-runner, renowned as a great
WHAT’S S A SPECIAL A A A A T TV A A A M A S E A I E S ?
writer, commenced dictating as a secretary transcribed and runners dashed
to the set bringing one page at a time. A hand shot up from an admirer
in the panel audience, “Was it the best thing you ever wrote?” “No,” he
laughed, “it didn’t make sense.”
• DRAMA SERIES HAVE A FOUR (OR FIVE OR SIX) ACT STRUCTURE.
Put away your books on three-act structure. Television dramas on networks
have for decades been written in four acts, though many network shows
now use five acts, and in 2006, ABC began mandating six acts for their
hour dramas. Even a rare seven-act structure has surfaced. You’ll learn
more about all that in Chapter Four, where a teleplay is analyzed. For
now, think about what happens every 13 to 15 minutes on a traditional
network show. You know: a commercial break. These breaks aren’t
random; they provide a grid for constructing the episode in which action
rises to a cliffhanger or twist (“⊗ point” may be a familiar term if
you’ve studied feature structure). Each of the four segments are “acts”
in the same sense as plays have real acts rather than the theoretical acts
described in analyzing features. At a stage play, at the end of an act the
curtain comes down, theatre lights come up, and the audience heads for
refreshments or the restrooms. That’s the kind of hard act break that
occurs in television. Writers plan towards those breaks and use them to
build tension.
Once you get the hang of it, you’ll discover act breaks don’t hamper your
creativity; they free you to be inventive within a rhythmic grid. And once
you work with that 15-minute block, you may want to use it off-network
and in movies. In fact, next time you’re in a movie theatre, notice the audi¬
ence every 15 minutes. You may see them shifting in their seats. I don’t
know whether 15-minute chunks have been carved into contemporary
consciousness by the media, or if they’re aspects of human psychology
which somehow evolved with us, but the 15-minute span existed before
television. In the early 20th century motion pictures were distributed on
reels that projectionists had to change every 15 minutes. Then, building
on that historical pattern, some screenwriting theorists began interpreting
features as eight 15-minute sequences. Whatever the origin, for decades
four acts were the template for drama series on the networks.
But not off-network. Syndicated series, like the various Star Trek incarna¬
tions, had to leave time for local advertising on individual stations which
buy the shows, and that means more commercial breaks. For a long time,
syndicated series have been written in five acts, and may also have a teaser
2 0 W R I I I N E IRE IV 0 R n M n H R I E $ / P R M fl 0 U E L R 5
(explained in Chapter Three) which is sometimes almost as long as an act,
giving an impression of six acts, each less than 10 pages long. Now, six
act network shows have become more like syndicated series, with all the
advertising minutes that implies. On the other side of the spectrum, cable
series like those on HBO have no act breaks, and may be structured more
like movies.
• EACH SERIES FITS A FRANCHISE.
Not Starbucks, though enough caffeine is downed on late rewrites to earn
that franchise too. Some typical television franchises include detective,
legal, medical, sci-fi, action-adventure, teen, and family. Each brings expec¬
tations from the audience that you should know, even if you challenge
them. For series creators, franchises are both boundaries and opportuni¬
ties. You’ll find more about how shows are created in Chapters Two and
Five, and in the Spotlight on Writing Your Pilot Script, but you can get
a clue why franchises are useful if you ask how hundreds of stories can
derive from a single premise.
The solution is to find “springboards” that propel dramatic conflicts or
adventures each episode. Those catalysts occur naturally in most of the
franchises: a crime sets the cop on a quest for the perp; someone in trouble
beseeches lawyers who must mount a case; a patient is brought for a doctor
to save. The hook for each episode is rooted in a specific world in which
sympathetic main characters must take immediate action. In other fran¬
chises — family dramas especially — springboards are less obvious, relying
on conflicts between characters rather than outside provocations. In these, a
personal inciting incident (even if it’s internal) sets each episode in motion.
Decades ago, audiences expected the franchises to deliver predictable
storytelling where any problem could be resolved within the hour. Take
Westerns, for example. The template was the frontier town threatened by
bad guys (black hats). The good guy marshal (white hat) wrangles with
weak or corrupt townspeople, gets a few on his side (room for one excep¬
tional guest role), defends the town against the black hats, and rides off
into the sunset.
With that old franchise in mind, think about Deadwood that ran on HBO
(now available on DVD). Yup, there’s the bad frontier town of rough
nasties. And it has an ex-marshal, a lead character who left his badge in
Montana to forge a future on the edge of the abyss. But similarities to the
franchise are superficial. Everyone in Deadwood is surviving any way he
Deadwood
can in a world without an outside redeemer, struggling to make sense of
life in a moral wilderness.
Clearly, ER, House, and Grey’s Anatomy all use the medical franchise,
where doctors must deal with new cases each week. But if you compare
them to examples of the historic franchise such as Marcus Welby, M.D.,
you’ll see how far ER and the others had to stretch to reflect contempo¬
rary life. Welby, the kindly doctor, free of deep introspection, worked
alone in his nice little office. But real doctors face ethical and legal issues
as they treat both the victim of a gunshot and the man who shot him, and
they cope with their own humanity — guilt, exhaustion, ambition, and the
competing pulls of the job and the rest of life including romance on Grey’s
and a doctor’s own physical limits on House. To express today’s medical
whirlwind, the form itself needed to change, so ER developed “vignette”
techniques in which multiple short stories flit by, some on top of each
other, and Grey’s continues that layering.
From the moment ABC slotted Grey’s Anatomy to follow Desperate
Housewives, the network mandated the tone: “Sex and the Surgery.”
Executive Producer Shonda Rhimes responded in Los Angeles Magazine,
“I don’t think of it as a medical drama. It’s a relationship show with some
surgery thrown in. That’s how I’ve always seen it.”
For a different tweak on the doctor franchise, watch Nip/Tuck on FX
about two plastic surgeons, where the real cutting edge is in the relation¬
ships and contemporary families.
Meanwhile, the family drama franchise is flourishing — like Big Love and
Weeds. Some families. I suppose you could call Showtime’s The L Word
a family drama too because episodes emanate from relationships among
2 2 WRITING THE TV D R R M R H R I E 5 / P H M D 0 U G L R S
the continuing cast (some of whom are related or living together) rather
than external events. Not exactly Leave It to Beaver. On the networks
more traditional family dramas do exist, of course, such as Judging Amy
and Gilmore Girls. But take a closer look and see if you can identify the
elements which update the franchise.
In the detective franchise, a light show like Monk on USA plays out the
traditional form: one detective gets one new crime mystery each week and,
after investigating red herrings that fall mostly at the act breaks, cleverly
solves it by the end of the hour. Though Monk’s obsessive-compulsive
characterization is a fresh, entertaining element, structurally this is a basic
“A” story series (more about A-B-C storytelling in Chapter Three).
But if you check out high-profile detective series now on the air, you’ll see
mostly ensemble casts and complex intertwining plots that are propelled
by issues in the news or social concerns. Some use cutting-edge forensic
technology, as in CSI, where the real star is science that engages the intel¬
lect. Detectives have always solved puzzles, of course, but the show’s
audience seems fascinated with futuristic tools that try the bounds of
human capability.
Series that rely on stories that are solved by investigative procedures are
called “procedurals” and include forensics (CSI), detective work (Law
and Order), and medical diagnoses (House) that follow clues to wrap up
a new case each week. Procedurals have always been attractive to syndi¬
cators because they can be aired in any order, and after saturation with
deeply-serialized shows like 24,
Lost and others, some networks are
backing off and looking for more
procedurals too.
At first, viewers were watching
densely plotted novelized series
with the kind of passion network
executives crave. Dana Walden,
president of the Twentieth Century
Fox Television studio, told the New
York Times in October, 2006, “It
did sort of filter into the ether. We
were all having conversations about
event drama, and an event drama is
a serialized drama.”
W H II I ' 5 SO SPECIAL fl B 0 0 T TV D B fl M fl SERIES? 2 3
But how many hours will people devote every week to intense serialized
dramas? And if you miss the first few episodes, it’s like reading a novel
⊤ in the ⊦. Would audiences become commitment-phobic?
Several solutions exist: catch-up marathons (as HBO has always run),
replays available on internet sites (more about new television outlets in
the final chapter “In the Future”), and DVDs. In fact, sales of 24 after its
first year validated the whole business of selling DVDs of entire seasons
of series, which was just emerging at that time. On Showtime, Dexter, a
character-driven psychological thriller, offers an interactive clues game on
the network website to hold its fans. Still, networks wonder if it would be
prudent to return to reliable procedural franchises.
And yet, those are volatile too. For example, the action-adventure fran¬
chise that thrived in the days of easy bad guys like The A Team and Starsky
and Hutch has transformed to shows like The Closer in which a char¬
acter said “I’m in America observing an empire on its deathbed, a tourist
doing charitable work among the addicted and sexually diseased.” In this
context. Showtime’s Sleeper Cell is an ambitious attempt to dramatize a
range of characters and motives that are unfamiliar to most Americans.
The action and adventure in shows like those emanate from the terrain,
rather than having the franchise itself control the story.
Nor could NYPD Blue be defined solely by its franchise, though it’s obvi¬
ously a detective show. And obviously a family drama built on personal
relationships among the ensemble. And obviously a spiritual quest built
on the “dark knight” in search of redemption. Forget about detective
work in the episode when Simone lay dying and viewers dramatically
experienced his awesome spiritual transition. “Breakthrough” has been
over-applied to various series, and when used for NYPD Blue, the acco¬
lade has sometimes missed the show’s real strength by referring to its
nerve to bare the rear end of a ⊦-aged man, when that’s not where
real innovation lies.
I haven’t even broached the crazy notion that anyone would watch an
insider series about politics, or the hybrids of “reality” shows mixed
with dramatic storytelling. For instance, try mixing adventure, romance
and even “family drama” with sci-fi/fantasy elements on Lost. A lot is
going on!
Speaking of sci-fi elements, now there’s a genre that has boldly gone
where science fiction hadn’t gone before on TV. While the Sci-Fi Channel
2 4 WRITING THE TV 0 R R M R T E R I E T / P R M D D U 6 L R S
(owned by NBC) continues a predictable roll-out of fantasy adventures
like Stargate SGI and New Atlantis, which serve its niche audience
without extending it, the channel also lucked into the critically-acclaimed
Battlestar Galactica, which has sometimes been more a searing political
allegory than even West Wing was, while occasionally venturing into
contemporary relationships on the level of premium cable dramas. At
the same time, Heroes, using a traditional sci-fi genre based on “graphic
novels” (comic books), is a hit on NBC, attracting viewers who are not
traditional sci-fi fans, featuring an international cast who struggle over
having supernatural powers.
If I had to guess the frontier of science fiction writing on television, I would
look towards the characters. In 20th-century sci-fi series, the leading edge
was technology as used by fantasy heroes, usually “perfect,” in action-
heavy battles between good and evil, which tended to play to children and
adolescents. Though contemporary sci-fi shows are as different as Lost
is from Heroes or Galactica, they all follow flawed human beings, and
the questions they explore involve relationships as much as philosophy;
and they’re watched by wide demographics. With so much range in this
franchise, if you’re interested in trying it, I suggest reaching up towards
real dramatic writing based on honest characters, and leave cartoon-like
thinking to the movies.
The vitality of 21st-century television drama has re-interpreted traditional
franchises. But that doesn’t mean they’ll disappear. When I was a beginner
freelancing any show that would give me a break, I landed an assignment
on Mike Hammer, a network detective series. At my first meeting, the
producer handed me two pages of guidelines. The first was titled “Mike
Hammer Formulaic Structure.” On the second were rules for writing
Mike, for example, “Mike speaks only in declarative sentences.” To be a
strong man, he could never ask questions, you see.
The formula went something like this: At the top of the show, a sympa¬
thetic character approaches Mike for help. At the end of ⊬ the
sympathetic character is found dead. In Act Two Mike is on the trail of
the killer, only to find him dead at the Act break, and yet someone else
has been killed (proving there’s a different killer). In Act Three the real
bad guy goes after Mike, and at the Act Three break, Mike is in mortal
jeopardy. Act Four is entirely ⊡, one-to-one, Mike against the
killer. And guess who wins. As I started, I thought such a rigid form would
be stultifying, but I discovered it was fun. Relieved of certain structure
W H fl I ' 5 SO S P E C I R t fl 0 0 0 T IV D R fl M fl SERIES? 2 5
choices, I felt free to be inventive with the guest cast and the kinds of situ¬
ations that could lead to the turns and twists.
Years later, an executive of the Children’s Television Workshop (makers
of Sesame Street) asked me to develop and write a pilot for a children’s
series, later named Ghostwriter, that would be structured like prime¬
time network dramas, complete with long character arcs, parallel stories,
complex relationships among a diverse ensemble cast, and even references
to controversial issues. I’d never written for kids, but I was intrigued. In
forming the series with the CTW team, we began by identifying a general
franchise — in this case, detectives because solving mysteries was a way
to involve the whole cast and incite each episode’s quest. Beyond that,
we stayed close to what human beings truly care about, how they reveal
themselves, and what makes people laugh, cry, be scared and fall in love
— people of any age.
Ghostwriter was originally intended for kids around eight years old to
encourage them to read. But CTW was astounded when research reported
that the audience went from four years old to sixteen. That’s not even a
demographic. I think the show exceeded anyone’s expectations because
the realistic characters rested on a franchise that was so robust it could
carry not only a very young cast but also some educational content while
moving the stories forward with high tension.
But when is a franchise not a franchise? In 2004, Dick Wolf, creator of
Law and Order, told Entertainment Weekly, ""Law and Order is a brand,
not a franchise. It’s the Mercedes of television. The cars are very different,
but if you buy a Mercedes, you’re still getting a good car. CSI is a fran¬
chise — like the Palm Restaurant. CSI is the same show set in different
cities, while the Law and Order shows are all very different from each
other.” No doubt, CSI, which competes head to head with Law and Order
on several nights, would describe itself as an even bigger car.
When you’re ready to plan a script as your showpiece for a series, ask
yourself what the underlying franchise is. Even if the show is innovative
and evolved beyond the tradition, the franchise may give you tips for
constructing your outline (more on this in Chapter Four).
2 6 WRITING IRE IV D R R M R SERIES / P R M 0 0 U e L R S
Go!
REDDY,
\[\,
Writing primetime TV drama series is an adventure into an expanding
universe. If you rise above outdated ideas about television, and have
pride in your talent so you never write down, you can create for the most
powerful medium in the world. In the next chapters you’ll find the tools
you’ll need, so get ready to jump on a moving rocket!
TV drama series have unique qualities:
• Characters continue over many episodes instead of concluding a
dramatic arc as in a two-hour movie. Focus on depth of characters rather
than looking for characters to change.
• Storylines may evolve over many episodes, especially in serials. Emphasize
increments or installments of a series-long quest rather than tying up a
⊗. However, most shows have some stories that “close” (resolve) within
an episode while other dramatic arcs continue.
• Network drama series are written in four, five or six acts marked by
cliffhangers at commercial breaks, though off-network shows may not
have formal act breaks.
• Certain franchises offer springboards that suggest hundreds of stories
from a show’s premise.
Adventurous cable programming and new markets have spurred growth
and change in television, and provide fresh opportunities for writers.
GOEn {PEIIKER;
Ohvid Milch
David Milch is Creator and Executive Producer of Deadwood, and was
Co-creator and Executive Producer of NYPD Blue.
PD: You went from writing and producing for a network to creating a
show for HBO — what’s the difference?
DM: As a practical matter, there isn’t an enormous amount of differ¬
ence because as time went on at the network I operated as I needed to
operate... and the network accommodated that process, ⊮ was not
always that way. Structurally, HBO is built to accommodate the work
process of the people who actually create the show, as opposed to networks
which are antithetical to the proper needs of those whose vision it is that
the show is intended to execute.
The predicate of a commercial network’s existence is to appeal to as broad
a segment of the population as possible. So their impulse is always to
take the edges off of anything that might offend the audience. Once the
network has bought the particular premise, immediately there ensues a
leveling of that idea to make it as broadly appealing as possible. Now,
one of the byproducts of that is the people who bring them their ideas
internalize those expectations so they conceive shows that will appeal to
as broad an audience as possible. There’s nothing malevolent about that.
It’s just that the revenue base is advertising and advertising wants to sell
to as many people as possible.
Since HBO just wants to sell to a particular portion of the audience by
subscription, they are much more congenial to allowing people to execute
their original visions. That would also be true of Showtime and some other
places. The reason for that [approach], in addition to the revenue model, is
that there is an idea at HBO about what constitutes quality programming.
27
2 a W n I I I N 6 THE TV D H a M 1) SERIES / p a M 0 D u a L a s
In other contexts, there’s a very simple way of analyzing the source of
most behavior — it’s either fear or faith. To the extent that any organiza¬
tion operates out of fear, mistrust of the audience or the people who
generate the work, that’s reflected in the content of the material. The
opposite is also true in that if you believe in the material, you believe in
the process, you believe in the programming, and you act out of that. It
sounds so simple. But if you’re able to do that then you maximize the
chance of getting quality work.
PD: I find some similar themes, especially in the spirituality of your stories,
in NYPD Blue and Deadwood.
DM: In the way I try to write, the ⊙ is never separate from the char¬
acter or ⊗. I think the moment you separate the elements out... if you
take the fundamental idea of spirituality, I suggest that it would have
something to do with an essential unity of all things. I would say all of my
work is organized by either the sense of unity or the sense of separateness.
That’s another way of saying it’s all fear or faith.
In Deadwood, due to the historical moment I was writing out of... I
wanted to move back toward the gehesis moment. And so I wanted to
explore a world which has yet had no law of any kind. If NYPD Blue
explored the life of people who, in the course of upholding the law lived
outside the law, I wanted to move back in history.
Originally, I had proposed a series set in ancient Rome about the first
guy who was arrested, St. Paul, who was taken to Rome for trial. HBO
was very keen on it but was already developing a [similar] show. They
asked me to think of another venue in which I could explore the same
sort of environment. Deadwood was a purely illegal settlement, it was
consciously outside the law, it was on Indian land, and they didn’t want to
pass any laws, so I studied it. That was how I came to that venue.
The idea is that the fundamental impulse that moves us toward some
idea of civilization is that chaos is very uncomfortable. The absolute
absence of individuation, as you’re confused about who is who, and
unrelieved and unrelenting profanity is really an assault on any idea of
order. And it’s tough when you experience that sort of thing. That’s not
where the world ends, that’s where the world begins in earnest.
The question becomes, for the viewer, why stick around? Well, for the
people of Deadwood, they have no choice. They have chosen that life.
They have chosen to be outside the law. And that’s why they speak the way
G U f 5 I 5 P E G K E R : DAVID MILCH 2 9
they do. For the viewer, for whom the choice is volitional, it’s a tremen¬
dous risk that you run being so inhospitable. My feeling was not to distort
my sense of what the kind of primordial soup was in order to make the
series more inviting. So those who came along, it’s like going to war, it’s
a horrible experience, but people who have been through it feel bound to
those who went through it with them. If you stick through an experience
and you don’t feel like you’re being manipulated, and that the experience,
however off-putting, is genuine, and you fight your way through, to my
mind that’s how America got born.
PD: As an artist, why did you choose television as your medium?
DM: Time. One of Robert Penn Warren’s poems about Audobon, the
guy who painted the birds, goes something like, “Tell me a story in this
moment and century of mania. Tell me a story. Make it a story of great
distances and starlight. The name of the story will be time. Tell me a story
of deep delight. ” What we learn or fail to learn over time is what endows
our experience with meaning, but to identify that as “⊙” is to demys¬
tify the experience of life.
TV makes available the large canvas: the opportunity to portray lives over
a big piece of time. For me, I have a pedestrian sensibility. I see things
in small increments. I can render a moment without necessarily under¬
standing its meaning. For that type of storyteller, the accumulation of
moments is what ultimately shows the pattern of experience.
PD: From your early work on Hill Street Blues to Deadwood, do you see
a historical evolvement?
DM: Every piece of work that I’ve ever done, which was successful, took
place at a historical moment where everyone knew that the form or conven¬
tion of the work I was doing was dead. Hill Street Blues was a show that
was impossible to follow, that no one would ever watch, because it didn’t
have enough closure. When NYPD Blue came on the air, the one hour
drama was dead. The police drama with continuing storylines was done.
The last thing anyone thought would be successful was a western.
PD: What’s next?
DM: When you begin to say “What’s next” you’ve already lost your way.
So you say “this will work, this won’t work.” What you have to do is
submit yourself to the spiritual moment and you take what it gives you. It’s
the spirituality that you bring to the premise. If you’re able to subordinate
Deadwood
GUEST S P E H K E R : DAVID MILCH
yourself to bringing that moment alive, it’s always going to work. You
can’t fake that stuff. The reason I won’t give the network my scripts is
because my responsibility is to the characters and the world.
PD: You don’t show your scripts — they’re cool with that?
DM: If they’re making money, they don’t care. They regard the artists as
a necessary inconvenience anyway. Essentially, what they want is deni-
ability. If it works, I thought of it. If it doesn’t, it’s not my fault. If you
don’t give them the script then it’s not their fault.
PD: That’s great.
DM: It’s not. I’ve spent decades trying to sell out; I just couldn’t figure it out.
PD: People reading this book may be college students or recent graduates.
Would you say something to ⊤ writers?
DM: It is hard, and the first thing to understand is that it is hard. The
moment of creation is antithetical to the things we need to live and
breathe and put one foot in front of the other. You have to find a way
to suspend the requirements as a living breathing person in order to give
yourself to the requirements of your work. That’s hard. In basketball,
when a guy comes in to dunk the ball, and the defensive guy swats it
away, they’ll sometimes say, “don’t come in here with any weak shit.”
If you’re coming to the hole, you better come with everything you have.
I would say that to any aspiring student. It’s not a game and it isn’t for
sissies. If you want to do good work, doing good work must be your
organizing passion. If you want to make a good living, and if you can do
good work at the same time, great. You may make a good living or you
may not, but you’re certainly not going to do good work [unless it’s your
passion]. It’s like having a child, or anything worthwhile; it’s conceived
and executed in blood and suffering. And if you want me to tell you
something prettier, I will, ⊮ won’t be true.
This is the business of life which is the business of art to glorify. You
struggle. And it’s hard and, for the most part, daily, hourly, we fail.
I fail and I fail and I live by failing and trying to find some grace in
failure, and that’s the nature of my work, and there is a kind of exulta¬
tion in that and a consolation in knowing that you’re doing, for better
or worse, what you were born to do, but that’s all it is. The rest is
just conversation —the awards, the money.... If I could have chosen
a different way, I would have. It’s the way I’m built. You have to give
3 2 WRITING THE TV 0 R fl M R SERIES / P R M DOUGLAS
yourself to that. It’s the essence of creating art to do so in humility.
You’re giving yourself to something else. So those are all things that the
⊤ student ought to live into, and then, you know, in accepting
that there’s a kind of joy.
How $HDW$ Get TV
on
TV
ONO THE TE0)0N
Fasten your seatbelt — here comes a heady two-year ride from the first
glimmer of a new series twisting through one year of ⊧ and
then barreling through a full season on the air. We’ll be touring the
traditional network cycle, though you already know from Chapter One
that TV is changing. Currently, some cable stations premiere series in
unusual months so they don’t compete with the network season, and some
networks are testing year-round production so they stay competitive with
cable, especially during the summer. I’ll discuss those variations at the end.
But now, take a look at the chart (Chart 2.1).
“Year One” represents the months of forming and selling a new series. See
the dividing line before May.^ That’s when a new show first gets picked up
by a network. In “Year Two,” we’ll follow a series that’s in production.
Month by month, you’ll experience the process as if watching your own
project grow up.
Let’s begin by making believe you have a great idea for a television series.
Screech! That was the sound of brakes. You’re not likely to get your orig¬
inal show made if you’re a beginner. At least, you’re not going to do it
by yourself. For decades, the custom has been to climb the ladder: You’d
join a staff and go up the ranks until a network invites you to propose
a series of your own. By then, the reasoning goes, you’d understand the
way things work so you could reliably deliver an episode every week. No
novice could have enough experience. Simply, no one would listen to you
no matter how interesting your idea might be.
33
3 4 W R I I I N 6 IRE IV D R fl M R SERIES / P fl M D D U E L R S
Chart 2.1 Traditional Two-Year ⊧ and Production of a New Show
Y6ar One - Developing a new show
Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Vov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr
Create Proposal
Production Co.
Go to Studio
Go to Network
Pilot Script
Green-Light
Pilot Season
Pick-Ups
Stafflng
Write Like Crazy
Debut Show
Finish Season
Hiatus
So let s back up and understand why beginners don’t create new series.
(I know, we haven’t even gotten to the first month, but hold on, you will
get on the track.) Consider what a drama series does: It manufactures
hour-long films that air every week and continue (the producers hope)
for years. Your ability to come up with a pilot (the first episode) doesn’t
prove you can write episode seven, or 20 or the 88th episode at the end
of four years. It doesn’t necessarily demonstrate that the series has the
“legs” for anyone else to derive a full season, either. (Having “legs” means
a show has the potential to generate enough stories to last a long time.)
And it surely doesn’t guarantee that you would know how to run a multi¬
million dollar business with hundreds of specialized employees (actors,
set-builders, editors, office staff, directors, truckers, camera-people, elec¬
tricians, composers... without even counting writers).
Television series aren’t bought or sold on ideas, but the ability to deliver
on those ideas.
HOW 5 H D W S GET ON TV fi N 0 THE TV 5 E H 5 0 N 3 5
Year Two - First season of new show
May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr
lllllllllllllllll
—/ While one sh low is in proc uction , new ones ai r
being develo 3ed.
'///m -----
wAm
'
.
1
V///////.y /Am.
"mmV A/AA/AA
WA/A/Aa \aaaaaaa/
1
mm
IH IB
iB
In May networks announce which pilots are picked up for next season.
If “yes” go to second year— production.
If “no” start over with another proposal.
Now, don’t freak. There are ways. The closed loop of staff writers
becoming show-runners who hire staff writers who will one day be show-
runners is loosening. Sometimes feature filmmakers who have clout but
no television experience are paired with TV veterans. A second infusion of
outsiders are the twenty-something producers. Since some outlets pursue
teen audiences, they tend to prefer writers under 30. But could they have
the experience to run a show? Here’s how it worked at The O.C.
At 27 years old. Josh Schwartz, creator of The O.C., became the youngest
person in network history to produce his own one-hour series. He was
a junior at the USC School of Cinema-Television when he sold a feature
script for half a million dollars. A few months later, he sold his first TV
pilot. And suddenly he was a TV producer, though he never spent a day on
the staff of a series. Fox supplemented him with Sex and the City writer
Allan Heinberg, who helped structure stories for the first 13 episodes, and
Bob DeLaurentis, who’d spent two decades running shows. De Laurentis
3 G w R I I I N B THE IV 0 R fl M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P R M 0 0 y 6 L R E
oversees all aspects of production while Heinberg runs the writing staff.
As for Schwartz, he writes or re-writes many of the episodes. In an article
in the New York Times, Schwartz commented, “It’s not like writing a
movie — you still have to learn how to map out a season, how to track
characters. It’s not something I could’ve done by myself for the first time.
You need people who’ve been through it. Who know how to build to
sweeps, or this is how a teaser works. I had to get educated.”
That brings us to your starting point on;
YIHR 0N[
Create Your Proposal
So, here you are with your fresh idea — though I hope you have more going
for you than that, even if you’ve never worked in television. For example,
Aaron McGruder, creator of The Boondocks comic strip, teamed with film¬
maker Reginald Hudlin to create a series that attracted network interest. Not
that you need a nationally syndicated strip, but do arm yourself with some¬
thing, at least accomplishment as a screenwriter. One of my former students
(described in Chapter Seven), parlayed his credit on a quirky independent film
But Tm a Cheerleader into several steps that led to writing a pilot for the WB
(with his writing partner). Leverage whatever is special about you.
In this early stage, you’re not aiming to shoot a series, only to land a meeting
with a production company that has a track record. So your first goal is to
be “adopted.” For this, you’ll need the same tool that will carry you all the
way to the network, so everything else rests on square one, when you’re on
your own. Let’s assume your idea has been percolating all winter, and now
in April you’re ready to form it into a presentation of some kind. But what
kind? Actually, this stage doesn’t offer the clear guidelines you’ll find in the
other steps. You’ll need to discover the most compelling way to put across
your unique concept. With that in mind, here are five possibilities:
(1) Write a TV Format
That term “format” can be confusing because it’s used in different ways
throughout filmmaking. “Format” may refer to a film stock or camera lens.
HOW 5 H D W 5 GET ON TV AND THE TV 5 E fl S 0 N 3 7
to the way a script is laid out on a page, or even a genre or franchise. In this
context it means a series proposal. Though a format isn’t an exact process,
certain components are advisable because you’ll be asked about them in
meetings anyway. In reality, most formats aren’t even written except as notes
for a network pitch. But I suggest you write everything, for now, to clarify
your show for yourself and a production company. Lay it out this way:
Cover page: Find a title that grabs attention and suggests the tone of the
show (funny, scary, dramatic, provocative, comforting, whatever). The
title will probably change; think of it as a toe in a doorway. Underneath,
identify the franchise or general category (i.e., teen drama, sitcom, polit¬
ical thriller, dramedy...). If it’s based on something (book, play, movie,
cartoon) you’d better say so, but make sure you have clear rights to the
underlying work. Your credit is “Written By” or “Created By” and that
goes on a separate line. Place your contact information at the bottom of
the page. If you’re represented by an agent or manager, of course, the
cover is done by their office and your agent will be the contact.
Do register the completed format with the Writers Guild (specifics on that
are in the Appendix). But do not put your WGA registration number on
the cover — it’s tacky. Also don’t include any dates or draft numbers.
Every draft you deliver is the first, untrammeled and never before revealed
to human eyes — or that’s what you’d like the producer to think. (No one
wants something that’s been rejected or gathering dust.)
On the top of page one, write a “Log Line.” You’ve encountered that term
in screenwriting classes, but did you know it originated in television.^ For
decades, television station owners have been required by the FCC to keep
a log of everything they broadcast. These had to fit on a line, like “Lassie
finds lost boy.” Then TV Guide and newspapers began printing short
episode summaries like this one from Joan of Arcadia: “Joan learns the
downside of vanity when God asks her to take a cosmetics class.”
Soon the promotional tag found its way to movie posters, as in: “Tom
Cruise stars as Nathan Algren, a heroic American military officer hired
by the Emperor of Japan to train the country’s first army. After being
captured by his Samurai enemies, Algren becomes unexpectedly inspired
by their way of life and fights to defend what he has come to love.” Or,
for a simpler example: “The women of Stepford have a secret.” Before
long, either full log lines (like the one from The Last Samurai) or “hooks”
(like the one from The Stepford Wives) became necessary to pitch films,
episodes, and series, not merely to log them or advertise.
3 8 WRITING THE TV 0 R fl M fl SERIES / P R M D 0 U e I H S
A log line for a series may be less specific than the story summaries you’ll
use for individual episodes. The goal is to orient a listener (yes, listener, not
reader) to your project, to catch an executive’s attention. “MTV Cops” is
a famous log line for Miami Vice from an era when MTV was new and
hot. When he was first presenting The O.C., Josh Schwartz knew the Fox
network was looking for an updated Beverly Hills 90210, so he pitched
his show as “90210 on the beach in Orange County,” and later admitted
that was a Trojan horse to set up a far more nuanced show.
Once your log line sizzles, take the first couple of pages of your format for
an Overview. This is not a summary of the pilot (a common mistake) but
an introduction to the world and the quest of the whole series, including
location, style, tone, context, and, most of all, characters. Though full
characterizations come later, the main cast must be mentioned up front.
Use brief tags like “a single, ⊦-aged probation officer who adopts a
child from one of her cases” (from Allison Anders’ series proposal In the
Echo)-, “a 29-year-old Congressional aide running against her boss” (from
Rod Lurie’s proposed The Capital City).
Within this Overview, suggest springboards for future episodes so deci¬
sion-makers believe the series has legs. That is, state the source of future
episodes, for example: Each week Joan gets a new challenge from God;
each week the detectives pursue three cases, walking a thin line between
vigilante justice and the job. As in any fiction writing, make ‘em laugh,
cry, be scared or angry or fall in love. The overview may be as far as you
get in a pitch, so make it soar.
Follow the Overview with the centerpiece of any series: characters. If viewers
don’t root for your main cast, if they’re not compelled to find out how the
people are coping or loving or fighting back each week, you don’t have
anything. Remember, TV drama isn’t really about the concept; it runs on the
emotional fuel of endless character arcs, as discussed in Chapter One.
Take one page each for the few leading roles. I said few. Yes, you’ve seen
excellent ensemble shows with casts in double-digits, but in a proposal,
the listener’s eyes will glaze over after you get past your third or fourth
character. So focus on one fascinating, eminently castable character and
us in her spirit and goals. You can do that again with roles for
antagonists or partners, providing their connections to the ⊛ are
gripping. Beyond those few, summarize the secondary cast with only a tag
for each, even if those parts will grow later.
H D W 5 H 0 W 5 BET ON TV R N D THE TV 5 E fl S 0 N 3 9
After the characters, you need to tell some stories. You might summarize a
potential pilot in a couple of pages. (More about pilot writing in a second.)
But networks really need the sense of a mid-season episode because that’s
a window to how the show functions every week. Some proposals focus
on episode seven. Some list log lines for five to 10 potential episodes. Some
describe the long arc and the end of the quest after five years on the air.
Whichever method suits your series best, be sure you communicate an
arena so rich that its possibilities seem endless.
That’s it for standard components, but that’s not it for a proposal. People
refer to series pitches as dog-and-pony shows, and so far I haven’t suggested
any special enticements, furry or otherwise. Try photos, artwork, clippings,
endorsements, biographies — come up with something fun. But don’t do
the baked goods angle; it’s been tried, and readers get annoyed. You know,
placing your proposal in a cake so the executive is sure to notice it. However,
if your show is set in a bakery, maybe you should get cooking!
(2) Write a Pilot
Pilot scripts are assigned by networks in the course of ⊧, and
I’ll tell you how that works when we get to September on the chart. (We’re
still only in April.) Normally, producers proposing a new series don’t go
in with a pilot already written because it’s too expensive for something
not likely to succeed (most proposals die, and so do most pilots). Also,
network reactions might change the series. Why spend $30,000 or more
for a script about a hermaphrodite in a beauty pageant when the network
will only buy if the contestant is a poodle? But if your writing is not
known, and you’re passionate that a sample would convince readers, then
speculating a pilot could be smart strategy.
J. ⊯ Straszynski, creator of Babylon 5, is said to have written all five
years of his series while he was on the staff of a Star Trek, so Babylon 5
was finished before he ever proposed it. But don’t try that at home, folks.
Short of writing 100 episodes, the worst you risk is another unsold script.
If it’s well-written, a pilot can serve as a writing sample along with any
other screenplays or episodes. And as soon as you have clout (or know
someone who does), you can take it off your shelf.
4 0 w R I T I N 6 IRE IV D R fl M fl SERIES / P R M D 0 U G L H S
(3) Write a "Backdoor Pilot"
A backdoor pilot is a two-hour movie, and might be a clever way to
propel a series. The game involves writing a pilot that masquerades as a
movie, and, in fact, works as a closed story. But the seeds of subsequent
tales and promising character developments are embedded in a situation
that could easily spring many episodes.
You could offer it as a screenplay and be thunderstruck when someone
else observes that it could lead to a series. Or you could come clean with
your intentions up front. Depends on with whom you’re dealing, but you
certainly should tell an agent what you have in mind. Getting a television
movie produced may be easier than a series, and a backdoor pilot gives
a network a chance to hedge the bet. If the movie does well, you have a
great shot at the series. If it doesn’t, you still have a movie.
(4) Create a Presentation Reel
A show-runner once invited me to his office to discuss a series that had
suddenly landed in his lap. He didn’t have a clue about it, he said uneasily;
it was loosely based on a hit movie and had been sold as a series on the basis
of a 15-minute reel made by one of the movie’s producers who didn’t have
time to do the show. So the newly anointed executive producer was hastily
interviewing writers to find the series. The problem was that 15 minutes of
“possible scenes” using the movie producer’s actor friends (who would not
be in the actual series either) didn’t add up. Not that the 15 minutes weren’t
cinematic — they were beautifully atmospheric — but the people in the
office were TV writers looking for the kinds of elements I’ve told you about:
a) springboards suggesting where stories would come from; b) characters
with potential for long arcs; c) some sort of quest or motor for the star.
The reel turned out to be sort of a Rorschach test: everyone came up with a
different show... which meant no show at all, finally.
Even if you’re not a Hollywood movie producer who can sell a series off a
few scenes, a reel might be helpful if used cleverly. Think of the dog-and-
pony show, and imagine an executive in his office. It’s 4 o’clock and he’s
been taking pitches every 20 minutes since his breakfast meeting at 8:00.
You walk in with a DVD. Yes, I think he might wake up for that.
If you want to try, here are some tips:
HOW S H 0 W 5 6 [ T ON IV H N D THE TV SEASON 4 1
Be careful it doesn’t scream student film. You know: the long zoom in to
the doorknob which is ever so beautifully lit and the reflective moments
laden with symbolism. Often, student films aim at film festivals where
their art is appreciated. In television, which moves faster, those same qual¬
ities may come off indulgent. So make sure your reel looks professional
and suits the medium.
Keep it short enough so you have time to pitch before or after the film, including
the set-up time. You may have only 15 minutes, total, in the meeting.
Do pitch the show. The reel is only eye-candy. Unlike the movie producer, you’re
not going to get away with not knowing how the series is going to work.
Have fun. Creative, original filmmaking can be an exciting calling card as
long as the series would be able to sustain your approach.
(5) Attach a "Package"
A “package” consists of “elements” that enhance your project’s profile. At
one time, packages emphasized actors, especially ones who have succeeded
in other series on the network, or movie stars. Certain “packaging agen¬
cies” still pride themselves in assembling all the creative talent (writers,
producers, directors, actors) from their own shop and “attaching” them.
Ah, there’s another bit of jargon. When someone is “attached,” that means
he or she has committed to work on your show; that’s a legal agreement,
not just an “expression of interest,” which doesn’t count.
But the notion of packaging is changing radically in our volatile industry.
Now studios are asking developers to include plans to exploit new shows
on YouTube and MySpace. That request isn’t casual; it presumes that
someone who creates a TV series is simultaneously creating an Internet
presence based on dramatic material, not merely advertising. It also places
the emphasis on the imagination of the pilot writer/series creator rather
than passing along ancillary markets to the production company. In fact,
Internet episodes are at the core, not “ancillary” in this approach. So in
the future you’ll need to offer far more than a script.
Go ahead and try them all — one through five — if you have the time
and money. But that would take another year. So to stay on our cycle,
let’s make believe you’ve created a terrific format, and backed it up with
impressive writing samples. Now you move ahead to square two:
4 2 w H I I I N G THE TV 0 R R M R SERIES / P R M 0 0 U e L H S
THE PRODUCTION COMPANY
You’re on the hunt for a production company with your new series as
bait. In May, you might get a producer’s attention because the previous
season has ended and work for the new one has not quite begun. If your
proposal is ready sooner, you could also “put out feelers” in April during
“hiatus.” (You’ll hear about the hiatus in Year Two.) Now, you need a
company that can get you into both a studio and a network. Better yet, try
to meet a show-runner who has an “open commitment” or “blind overall
deal,” which means a network is obligated to buy a show from him. Who
knows, he just might be searching for something new.
But how are you going to find him? Through your agent; like it or not,
that’s how this industry works. Any competent agent knows who’s willing
to take series pitches, who is between shows, who might spark to your
idea, who is willing to deal with a beginner, and who has relationships
at the kinds of outlets that fit your show. The agent can put you in the
room. So if you already have an agent, you can skip this section. NOT!
Don’t ever lie back and think an agent is going to do it all for you. To
paraphrase: Agents help those who help themselves. If you don’t have one,
see Chapter Six, “How to Break In.”
But what if you’re determined to plow ahead on your own? It’s not impos¬
sible to get to production companies, and in some cases they may be
more accessible than agents. Read the “trades” {Daily Variety and The
Hollywood Reporter) to scope who’s interested in developing new series.
If you have the magic bullet for a company who needs to get with the
times and climb back to the top, or if you’re young, talented, have some
awards or credits, and an aggressive personality, you may well get past
the receptionist. Part of the technique is finding the perfect match to your
sensibility and your project. And part of it, quite frankly, is age.
I’ll be candid with you about this issue. I’m sure you’ve heard about age
discrimination in Hollywood. Some networks tend to chase young demo¬
graphics, though not all are the same; in fact the top cable outlets and
sophisticated network dramas prefer talent that has been honed. Still,
the youth bias has created an opportunity for young writers. Very young.
I know of a high school student whose home-made pilot was seriously
considered, though it never sold.
HOW S H D W 5 GET ON TV AND THE TV 5 E fl S D N 4 3
At use, my graduate screenwriting students range from mid twenties to mid
thirties, so one year I joked to a class that they’d better not turn 30, just keep
turning 29. Well, in the fall I got a call from Jennifer, a good writer who’d grad¬
uated the previous spring. She was upset because she applied for a writing job
and the secretary asked her age. (That’s illegal, by the way.) Jennifer, who had
just celebrated her 30th birthday, remembered my joke and quickly answered
“29.” “Oooh, I’m sorry,” the secretary cooed, “our ceiling is 26.”
You may have heard about the writer who was hired on Felicity on the
basis of being 18, and fired when she was discovered to be (gasp!) over 30.
But the point for you is being young might help you get a meeting. After
that, you’ll have to wrangle not to lose your project to more seasoned
writers, but right now we’re talking about first steps.
Whatever your tactic, start by researching television production companies
that do projects like yours. At the tail of each episode you’ll see a list of
producing entities. Sometimes several logos appear because an expensive
series may spread the cost among various backers, so to find out who is
actually developing series, try phoning the show or the network and asking.
Other resources include websites. The Hollywood Creative Directory, the
Library of the Writers Guild of America, and the Academy of Television
Arts and Sciences. Information on all those is in the Appendix.
Once you have your targets, write to them and follow with a call asking to
pitch your series idea. Don’t mail the format, but if you can catch the reader
with a beguiling few sentences, you may flush out someone curious enough
to take a brief meeting. You don’t need to wait for a response from your
first choice before hitting up a second place. Contact them all at once.
At the meeting, you need to hook the listener quickly. Of course, you hope
that listener is an executive producer or head of the production company.
But if you’re shunted off to an assistant, go ahead anyway. Make an ally so
you’ll have a chance to repeat the pitch to the decision maker another day.
What are they looking for.^ Energy. That’s amorphous, I know, ⊮ covers
the sense that the series has possibilities. Remember, a series pitch is not the
same as telling a movie story where the ⊗ beats need to be in place. This
is the first step in a long ⊧ process, and if this company becomes
involved, they’ll probably steer you toward revisions so the project will
sell, or so it fits in a specific time slot, or competes with other series coming
down the pike. They’ll be watching how flexible you are, wondering if
they’d be comfortable working with you for years, kind of a blind date. If
4 4 W R I I I N 6 IRE TV D R fl M R ! E R I E 5 / P fl M 0 D U E L R 5
you’re defensive or reluctant to revise your precious property, they’ll wish
you luck trying to do it all by yourself — elsewhere.
They’ll be checking whether the concept is viable; that is, whether they
can physically produce it each week within a likely budget. But they won’t
ask that question unless you satisfy two other qualifications: (1) The show
is completely new and unique, and (2) the show is exactly like what has
succeeded before. Yes, it’s a paradox. The solution is to be original within
a franchise, even if that franchise is re-interpreted, as I discussed in the
first chapter when I mentioned Deadwood as a contemporary version of
the Western, and how ER differs from the old doctor series.
And, of course, you know what every TV series needs above all. Come on,
you know the answer: Characters. The heart of your pitch is how fully
you engage the buyer in the people you have created. But you already
know that from your format, because you’re well prepared.
So let’s imagine you’ve pitched to a few executive producers and settled on
one company that has everything: a studio deal, the juice to take you to
a network, the ability to deliver the show, the willingness to keep you in
the loop even though you’re a beginner; and, most of all, they “get” your
idea. You’ve found a creative home.
Maybe.
THE STUDIO
Most production companies can’t go to the networks by themselves.
That’s because network series are “deficit financed.” Networks pay a fee
to broadcast each program, around 75% of the cost of making it. For an
hour-long drama which costs five million, the shortfall is around a million
dollars per week. Every week. Companies don’t have that.
Studios do. Think of the studio as the bank. From the point of view of a
“suit,” every time a studio endorses a series with one of the production
companies on their lot they’re taking a calculated risk. Four years will
go by before they see any return on their investment, if they ever do, and
most shows are cancelled before that. But, oh, when a show finishes the
88th episode, they hit what they call “the mother lode,” “the jackpot,”
HOW 5 H D W S BET ON TV AND THE TV SEATON 4 5
Valhalla.” Now they can sell the shows at a profit to syndication. A
single hit underwrites years of failures. Will yours be that hit?
That brings us back to you. Probably, you have no agreement in writing
with the production company. They’re waiting to see if the studio will get
behind this project. While you’re away, the producer is talking to the Vice
President for Dramatic Series ⊧ of the studio where he has a
deal. If the producer loves your show, he’s pre-pitching it, maybe touting
you as the next great thing.
Or not. He may be testing the waters to see if you’re approvable before he
sticks in his own toe. That might involve sending your writing samples to
the studio executive, or even, quietly, to a contact at one of the networks.
He may also test the general “arena” of the show, without specifically
pitching it: “Any interest in a drama about house plants; I have a great
fern.” Prepare yourself, because if weak signals start coming back from
the studio, he might drop the project; or he might keep the project but
begin nudging you aside. You’ll know you’re being dumped if his conver¬
sation includes the term “participating,” if he floats names of possible
writers who aren’t you, and if he talks up the title “associate producer.”
Sometimes that indicates an actual job, ⊮ might be honorary, a way to
shift you off the writing staff. Remember, you do have the right to say no
and take your project elsewhere.
Let’s imagine someone up there thinks you’re interesting, at least enough
to let you audition. So back you go to the studio lot. But this time, you
and the producer will refine and rehearse your pitch, and together, you’ll
go to the VP.
If your producer is powerful, and he has an open commitment or overall
deal, the studio may let him make network appointments on his word alone.
If he’s not that strong, or he’s not so confident of your show, he’ll ask you to
pitch your heart out again. Though your original format has been revised,
you’re essentially presenting what you developed in April. But now the
producer is sitting next to you, and you’re talking to a big desk.
Let’s say you pass “Go.” You advance to the next squares:
4 G WRITING IRE IV D R R M fl S E R I E I / P R M 0 0 U 6 L H S
Mmj
July hnd
THE NETWORK
Traditional network television operates on the lemming model; All the
creatures rush to the precipice at the same time and most fall off. You 11
observe this behavior in most of the following stages.
All the networks “open” for new series pitches during the summer. They
announce an exact ⊨ date to agencies, and sometimes it’s in the
trades. Depending on their needs — that is, how many series are returning,
how many slots they have to fill for the fall — some might begin meetings
in June, and some might be hearing proposals as late as October. You want
to get in there as soon as possible, before they’re filled, though they’re inun¬
dated no matter when you go. And the playing field isn’t level. The big shots
(companies with successful shows on the air) will have scarfed up prime
broadcast real estate before your meeting is even scheduled.
The process is well-established and organized, though it looks like a shell
game to an outsider. Each network may hear around 500 pitches during
their open season. Out of those, each chooses 50 to 100 to become pilot
scripts. Of those, 10 to 20 might be made into pilot films. Out of those, a
few become series. Those numbers vary each year, but here’s a simplified
example from just one of the three major networks: Take 20% at each cut
— 500 pitches yield 100 pilot scripts yield 20 pilots which yield five series
(see Chart 2.2). That’s a 10% overall chance of making a sale, if all else
was equal, which, of course, it isn’t.
Instead of dwelling on the odds, let’s stay focused on your own opportu¬
nity. First, understand the human side of what you’re walking into at a
network. The Vice President for new dramatic programs, and the Director
of new dramatic programs (along with a lesser title. Manager of new
dramatic programs) are taking meetings all day, every day for three or
four months. A parade of show-runners comes in and out of that office
every 20 minutes or so. In fact, your own producer may be fielding other
shows besides yours, which means they’re in competition with you.
On the day of the meeting, everyone is dressed up. You’ll gather in the lobby
with your executive producer and possibly someone representing the studio,
an agent from a major packaging agency (likely, the producer’s agent), and
other components of your package. That might mean a network-approved
high-power writer who would guarantee the pilot script, or a television star.
HOW 5 H 0 W 5 BET BN TV B N D THE TV 5 E fl 5 B N 4 7
I once went to a network pitch on a show where the lead actor was essen¬
tial. When the day came, the actor was called to a dubbing session. And
we couldn’t change the appointment. So we went in with a blow-up of his
head shot and sat it on a chair.
You’ll have a cheering section in your meeting, and the first little while will
seem like friendly greetings. Then the moment comes when the producer
says, “You’re on,” the room falls silent, and all eyes are on you. Now,
pitching to a network executive is a craft unto itself. Some execs nod,
smile, and act interested. With others, it’s like talking to Mount Rushmore.
Regardless, keep your energy high. With the nice guy, you skip out of the
meeting sure you just sold a series. With the mountain, you believe you
failed. Neither might be true.
Chart 2.2 New Series ⊧ at One Network
(a hypothetical example)
500 100 pilot 20 5 1
pitches scripts pilots series new
from from made from sold in show
June to August to January to May succeeds
October December April and is
renewed
4 e WRITING THE TV 0 R R M H 5 E R I E 5 / P R M D D U G L R E
If you haven’t heard in a week or two, the studio (or your producer, depending
on the network relationship) phones the network. They’re usually pretty
quick about saying no, and in that case, the studio will set up a meeting at
the next network on the list. This can go on several times, but after three
networks, and maybe a surreptitious call to basic cable, if you’re not getting
a nibble, they’ll probably drop your project. Remember, the property is still
yours at this point, and no one owes anybody anything.
But let’s say you were funny and intriguing and fresh and unique — and
the network thinks your show is just like another one that’s a hit — so
you pass “Go” again. Of course, you’re not green-lighted to make a series
— you know better than that by now. The assignment is only to write the
pilot. That’s the next group of squares:
jEPIlMBIR 10 NOVEMOm
THE PILOT SCRIPT
Whoever writes the pilot will have at least a “developed by” credit, and
may even receive “created by” credit on the series. That will generate a
royalty on every episode, and his name will appear on screen forever, even
if the pilot-writer is long gone. Don’t assume that’s you unless your writing
proves that only you can capture the style and world you’ve proposed.
Or have you already written the pilot? If you took a chance on it, the
producer will wonder if it’s going to hurt or help your prospects. That’s
a sticky situation because asking you to set aside your pilot in favor of
someone else’s draft is emotionally wrenching. But if you lose the whole
deal because your pilot is less than mind blowing that’s just as wrenching.
Some professional writers have built careers doing pilots for other people’s
shows. They’re savvy about the ingredients any pilot needs, they bring a
pedigree of successful series, and they know how to win over network
readers. It’s an oddity because these special pilot writers, who may earn
up to half a million dollars for a one-hour script, usually are not the ones
who will write the episodes each week, so network decision-makers are
evaluating a hyped up version of the show. It’s kind of a bait-and-switch
where they’re buying one writer’s ⊞, but another will write the series.
Let’s say they love your project because they love something about you —
your hip writing style, insight into a subculture, your humor, your passion.
HOW 5 H D W 5 6 E r ON TV H N D THE TV 5 E H S D N
Or maybe you’re just less expensive — $30,000 for the pilot script instead
of half a million. Now the network calls the studio who calls the producer
who calls your agent who calls you and you get a contract to write.
So, how do you do this thing? Pilots come in two flavors: premise and
ongoing. A premise pilot begins with a “before” and propels the quest
or situation the central character will tackle throughout the series. For
example. Northern Exposure opened in New York City, where the lead
character, Joel Fleischman, learns that his medical school scholarship
requires him to work as a doctor in Cicely, Alaska. Joel fights to get out of
this commitment but soon finds himself staring out a train window until
he arrives at a frozen place where he’s greeted by a moose. As we’re drawn
into his new world, we meet the characters who will become Joel’s new
relationships, and their arcs are set in motion.
In an ongoing pilot, the world of the show is in place and many of the charac¬
ters are entrenched in their dramatic missions. The challenge is to reveal these
characters and relationships without the aid of an outsider’s introduction,
which we had with Joel Fleischman. An example of an ongoing pilot was ER:
a day in the life of an emergency room at a Chicago hospital in full swing.
New characters arrived — Nurse Hathaway on a stretcher, and Carter as a
young intern — but the elements of the show were already in play.
Whichever type of pilot you choose, you’ll need the same ingredients. In addi¬
tion to terrific writing, which includes building tension toward cliffhangers
at act breaks and creating rich and provocative characters, just as you would
in any episode (see Chapter Three for more about this), pilots have a special
burden of exposition. Without the audience feeling it’s being informed, you
need to establish the rules of your world, the engine for future stories (spring¬
boards), and enough “backstory” (history) on the characters so their current
situations are understandable. You want viewers riveted by the characters.
Simply, your pilot has to make people tune in to episode two.
Some techniques are similar to ⊤ a feature, where audiences don’t yet
know the characters either. But features are easier because once people have
bought tickets and are sitting in the dark, they’ll give a movie time to unveil
itself. Television has to grab people in the first minutes or they’re clicking the
remote. So, sure, use everything you know from theatrical screenplays in terms
of presenting a new character, but start the story faster. Also, use everything
you’ve learned about avoiding clunky exposition (bury it in an argument,
play it in a ⊕ instead of explaining, use visual evidence, parse it out in bits,
reveal it as part of the ⊗ instead of for its own sake, and so forth). If you’re
5 D W R I T I N 6 THE IV D R fl M fl SERIES / RAM 0 0 U e L H S
“living” your writing, instead of manipulating it, some of these problems may
solve themselves. And if those central characters and your idea are as vibrant
as the format you pitched, the pilot might come naturally.
Easy or difficult, 50 to 60 pages are going to be due at the network around
Thanksgiving. From a network’s point of view it will be the first draft.
Of course, it won’t. You will have gone through every step with your
producer, and the studio may have read drafts as well. No one wants to
take a chance this won’t work, so if your drafts aren’t delivering the spirit
that landed this assignment, they’ll bring in another writer, who will share
the writing credit. So all through October and November you’re rewriting
like crazy — you and everyone else who’s doing a pilot. And, true to the
lemmings, everyone else’s pilot is due at all the networks the same time as
yours. All over town everyone is anticipating:
December hno Irnurry
THE CREEM-LICHT
Several possibilities: The network may send notes for a second draft of the
pilot. If so, you’ll gnash your teeth: What do they mean they don’t like
the central character — that’s exactly who I pitched and that’s who they
bought! They wait until now to tell me they have another pilot too close
to this, so we have to change everything! What am I supposed to do with a
note like “not funny enough” when this drama was never supposed to be
funny at all! No, I can’t turn this drama about men in prison into a vehicle
for Britney Spears! Huh???
After the gnashing, you’ll sit with the producer and maybe your studio
⊧ person and figure out what you can fix, and what, if anything,
may be left alone or argued. If they believe your situation is precarious,
the studio may ask for a major rewrite. In any case, your finished script is
due by Christmas — the same as everyone else.
And like everyone else, you’re hoping your pilot script will be plucked
out as one of the 20% or 30% that get “green-lighted.” That means the
network gives the production company the go-ahead to produce the pilot.
These green-lights may be announced anytime from December through
January. They lead to:
HOW 5 H D W S BET ON TV R N D THE TV 5 E fl 5 0 N 5 1
FfBRynilY TB Hpril
PILOT SEASON
Instead of snow, a climate of anxiety hangs in the sunny skies of Los
Angeles in winter. It’s accompanied by a giant sound of vacuuming,
inhaling all unclaimed film crews down to the last grip and gaffer, all the
sound stages, every available television director, and all the actors who
cycle through pilots year after year in “holding deals” (contracts which
hold an actor exclusive to a potential series). George Clooney was cast in
15 failed pilots before ER. Welcome to pilot season.
Though it begins with your script, the produced pilot is enhanced by
“production values” (locations, techniques or personnel) that make it more
expensive than a normal episode. For example, Disney spent a remarkable
$12 million on the two-hour pilot for its 2004 series Lost.
When fully edited, a typical pilot will be 44 minutes long, the length of a
network hour without ads. But once in a while a network asks for a 20
or 25 minute “presentation” instead, like a demo for a record company.
That’s bad news for you as the writer, because your finely honed 60 page
script must be slashed to 30 pages, losing secondary story lines, nuance,
and sometimes risking the sense of the show. Networks order these presen¬
tations anyway because they cost around two million, which is roughly
half the cost of a pilot. If this befalls you, just sit down and cut the pages.
You really don’t have a choice.
Except for production revisions (for casting, location, timing, and so
forth), the writer’s work is essentially finished by February. Still, I advise
you to stick as close as you can to the production. If the producers will let
you, be on the set, see the “dailies,” go to meetings. Of course, you know
better than to breathe down the director’s neck or stand in the way of
rolling cameras. Just don’t fade out after you’ve written “fade out.”
By April, all the pilots in all genres at all the networks are edited and
tested at the same time. This testing, incidentally, is a tribal ritual in itself.
Unwitting tourists in Las Vegas (chosen because Vegas attracts visitors
from all over the country) are given 10-dollar gift certificates in exchange
for registering their reactions on an electronic dial while viewing a pilot.
If something scores poorly, it may be re-edited; way too late to re-write,
though. With the pilots done, it’s time for:
5 2 WRITING THE TV D R fl M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P R M 0 D U G L fl T
PICK-UPS
All the lemmings arrive at the edge of the precipice at once — and off they
go to New York by May. Isn’t it strange that shows are (usually) produced
in Los Angeles, and network and studio executives are based here, and
the entire creation of the pilot happens on the West Coast, yet the verdict
is rendered 3,000 miles away? That’s because the decision is corporate,
involving huge investments which impact parent companies and involve
advertisers who (they hope) offset those costs. It’s Big Brother time.
Once the pilots have gone, no one can do anything but wait. That doesn’t
stop studio executives from checking into top New York hotels and
haunting lobbies where screenings are in progress upstairs. They can’t
really influence the outcome, can’t attend screenings or discussions, so
what do they hope to gain? Gossip — leaks, hints, a raised eyebrow that
their show may go. Or die.
I once wrote a pilot for a company whose glory days were memorialized
in posters of hit series lining the corridors. But the rooms off the corridors
were empty. Every one of their series had concluded or been cancelled the
season before. They fielded a number of possibilities, but only one went
to pilot — mine. It was early May, and only one light was on in one office
— the executive producer’s. He went there every day and sat at the phone.
He ate lunch at the phone. Waiting. Waiting for the call from New York.
He sent his secretary to the city to listen for rumors, but she hadn’t heard
anything. I brought him lunch one day, but we didn’t have much to talk
about, staring at the phone.
Finally, in mid-May the call came: “We’re not going to pick you up.” There
was no explanation — there never is — but post-game analysis guessed that
too many similar shows were offered, or too many competing shops had
early commitments, or too few slots were open, or none of the above.
But let’s make believe your phone call is some version of “Pack your
bags — we’ll see you in New York.” Your order will probably be in one
of four categories:
H D W 5 H 0 W 5 BET ON TV R N D THE TV 5 E fl 5 D N B 3
• Full season
A network season is 22 episodes, though some shows do 24 or even 26. In
reality, even an order for a full season is hedged: The pick-up (commitment
to air) is “13 plus the back 9.” That means 13 episodes will be broadcast,
with the decision on the final 9 contingent on their performance.
• Short order
This is bad news for show creators. It means the network agrees to air
only six episodes — or only four! If those hook an audience quickly,
more episodes are ordered. But how many shows find their audiences
in three weeks? With so many options, viewers might not even visit the
newborn until week three. And some series take a while to get their legs.
Historically, icons like the original Star Trek, All in the Family and other
famously successful series took months before word of mouth alerted
viewers to check them out.
Now, the heap of dead series, killed before people hardly knew they were
on, casts a stench over creativity at the networks. Bottom-line network
executives tend to avoid risks, but that policy backfires because fear-based
decisions send some of the most creative producers and writers to cable
where long orders are customary.
• Midseason
Midseason pickups may be the best news, some show-runners think.
Though a late debut denies the show a spot on the fall schedule, and
probably limits the number of episodes that would air the first year, some
producers like it: Their show is removed from the crowd of September
premieres and saved from the insistent pressure to be on the air in a few
months. Networks also like midseason shows because they create an illu¬
sion of year-round programming which helps the network compete with
year-round cable. And midseason replacements are a cushion against inev¬
itable cancellations. If the network lets the show go ahead and produce a
few episodes, pending a slot, you’ll have the time to write as well as you
did in the pilot.
That said, as the writer, you’ll feel disappointed. You have to wait until
late fall or early winter to find out when you’re on the air. And it’s hard
not to wonder if you’ll ever be given a place at all.
5 4 W R I I I N 6 THE TV D R fl M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P R M D 0 U B I R S
• Backup scripts
Backups are the smallest pick-up, accompanied by a better-than-nothing
sigh. It means the network won’t let you produce any episodes but would
like to see additional scripts. They’re holding on to the show because
the concept interests them, but something in the pilot didn’t work. It
might be casting, tone, location, or something at the core — the direc¬
tion of the stories themselves. This is a second opportunity to prove the
series can work by actually writing up to five episodes, sometimes called
“backup pilots.” You, the writer, are in the spotlight, and assuming they
haven’t held back because the writing is weak, this can be your chance
to shine.
Let’s make believe you got a pick-up for 13 on the air. See the line before
May in the diagram? Well, hold on because you’re about to cross it to:
Staffing
Hurtled out of the ⊧ chute, still tumbling, you land in June
with three months to put an hour series on the air every week. That
doesn’t mean producing the first hour. It means scripts for the first five to
seven episodes, plus three “in the can” (ready to air). But you have next
to nothing. The sets have been struck and need to be re-built. You have no
crew, no office, no production facility, no phones. And you urgently need
a writing staff right now.
Shows that are ongoing or announced early aren’t in this fix (and neither are
cable series, but more about that at the end). Optimistic show-runners started
reading sample scripts and speaking with agents as far back as February,
especially if the pilot was attracting an industry “buzz.” But without an actual
order, they couldn’t staff. And some producers are taken by surprise.
I was once hired on a staff in June and we didn’t gather until the first week
in July, though we were scheduled to premiere the first week of September.
The executive producer, a highly regarded sitcom writer-producer, had
done a pilot for an hour drama, outside his usual genre. Considered a
HOW SHOWS 6 t T ON IV AND THE TV SEASON 5 5
“dramedy” (a hybrid of drama and comedy), it was a long shot. I think he
was actually out of town on vacation when the pick-ups were announced;
that’s how unlikely he thought this would be. So there we sat in a tempo¬
rary office lent by the studio — four adrift writers and the surprised
show-runner. He opened with “Anyone have ideas for stories?”
But that’s rare. With months to imagine winning this lottery, most show-
runners are ready, and the instant the series goes, negotiations commence
with writers. If you were in the mix from the ⊤ (if the concept was
yours or you wrote the pilot), your deal is already in place. If you’re trying
to join a staff, June is when those jobs open and fill quickly, so your agent
should have been pitching you in the months before.
The next chapter tells how a writing staff works, so we’ll skip over that
and assume by the end of June everyone is in place and writing has begun.
It continues:
m
jyiY HUGUil
WRITE LIKE CRAZY
Ditch the idea that summer is vacation time if you’re writing for network
television. July and August are the crazy-making months when the staff
is turning out scripts as fast as they can. Though each show has its own
rhythm, if you’re in any writers’ room, you’ll be “breaking stories” around
the table, dissecting outlines as they come in, and discussing early drafts
by the other writers every week at the same time as you write your own.
(In Chapter Four, I explain the steps of writing.)
Probably, the first episode exists: It’s the pilot. But the audience might not
discover your series the first week, or even the second. So in a way, the
first three episodes will function as pilots. Episodes Two and Three have
to reach a balance between orienting first-time viewers by reprising the
overall “mission” and identifying the cast, while progressing the stories
to hold people who watched before. If the pilot was a premise which
deposited a character in a new environment or quest, then Episode Two is
expected to deliver what happens there. It may be the most difficult and
least rewarding episode on a show.
5 G WRITING THE TV 0 H H M fl SERIES / P H M D 0 U 6 L R S
Think about it — the audience doesn’t know the characters, so viewers
are not yet emotionally invested. But neither do you have the benefit of
the inciting situation or curiosity that sets the series in motion, since that
happened the first week. Nevertheless, this “⊧” episode must
sizzle with the tension and anticipation of the pilot. That calls for one of
the more experienced writers — not you. Your earliest assignment might
be Episode Four or Five, depending on the size of the staff.
While the staff is writing, production is rolling out shows. Probably,
you’ll be invited to sit in on casting guest stars in your own episode. Once
shooting starts, “dailies” (unedited scenes) are screened almost every day.
Go to the screenings, no matter how hard you’re writing. After you hear
how the ⊘ plays, you might want to rework the cadence of a ⊕
you’re writing. Dailies also reveal the strengths of the actors. If chemistry
between actors burns off the screen, you’ll want to use it.
But don’t get beguiled by stars. You’ve probably heard the joke about the
starlet who was so stupid she slept with the writer. Well, that doesn’t make
sense in television where writers do have power, and smart actors know it.
They’ll want to have lunch with you to pitch stories for their characters.
I was on one show where an actor researched each writer’s birthday and
sent exquisite hand-made cards; on another, an actor distributed coffee
mugs personalized with each writer’s name. Some show-runners warn
new writers not to hang out with the actors, fearing they’ll be too easily
influenced. I say, go for it — talented actors contemplate their characters,
and that can inspire you.
As the series evolves, the head writer must decide whether to let charac¬
ters develop in a way he didn’t foresee, or stick to the original plan. Some
show-runners begin with a chart of story arcs for the whole season. In
fact, one established series invites its large staff to a retreat in early June.
On a whiteboard, they assign each character a color-coded marker and
track the five main roles from episode one to 22 in a stack of horizontal
lines. After all arcs are complete, they slice vertically, showing how the
stories intersect (see chart 2.3). If you work for that executive producer,
no one can abscond with the series.
But other show-runners have a freer approach. The team that headed
Northern Exposure used to build their series “bible” as each script came
along. In one episode, a writer would invent a brother for a character, or
a secret past, or a private fear. These were listed as “facts to wax” and
HOW S H D W 5 BET D N TV AND THE TV SEASON 5 7
Chart 2.3 Sample Character Arcs for a Season on One Series
Episodes
distributed to the staff. After years, they accumulated a compendium of
what various writers created — quite a different approach to a bible.
I used the term “bible” — no religious connotation (unless you worship the
show). A TV bible is a document intended to help new writers and directors
understand the rules of a series. Complete bibles contain elements similar to a
“format” — a log line, franchise, an overview of springboards, tone, style, and
the quest of the series, followed by character sketches and story guidelines.
The king of all series bibles was made for Star Trek: The Next Generation.
At around 100 pages, it included intricate diagrams of the Enterprise,
details on how the ship’s bridge operates, definitions of technical terms,
characterizations that not only summarized every crew member but also
analyzed the relationship and history of each one with every other, an
admonition of what to write and not write for the series; and it was
accompanied by summaries of every story the show had ever aired, as
well as every idea in the mill. Trek had to go this far because it was open
to non-professional submissions. I think it was kind of self-defense against
repeated questions from its many fans.
B e w R I I I N B THE TV D H fl M fl S E R I £ 5 / P H M 0 0 U G L R 5
But that’s extreme. Some bibles are just a few pages including the premise,
character bios, and the kinds of stories they intend to tell. Others, like
Northern Exposure, are amassed rather than generated. And, frankly,
most shows don’t bother with bibles at all. They take too much time when
everyone is busy making the air date. But if one will be composed, now is
the time.
While the staff writes and re-writes through the summer, network notes
trickle down. Each episode is read by the network — Legal, and Standards
and Practices, on top of the executive assigned to your show. Those notes
go to the show-runner, so if you’re a ⊤ writer he’ll filter and inter¬
pret them; you won’t interface directly with the network. Your boss is
choosing when to fight the network brass and when to accommodate the
notes. It’s just part of the network landscape.
All this work leads to:
lEPlEMBER HND flCIOBER
THE DEBUT
If it were a stage play, you’d have flowers and a party ⊨ night.
But in television, you’re doing “post” on a later episode by the time the
pilot airs. (Postproduction means everything after filming, like editing and
scoring.) And that pilot was written a year ago, before the series was a
glimmer in the eye of any of the current staff. Still, send up the fireworks
in the parking lot after you watch it on TV like it was new.
Well, it is new, because once the show is broadcast, it feels like public prop¬
erty, out of the creative cocoon. “Overnights,” which are quick national
ratings, are on the show-runner’s desk the next morning. He’ll tell the staff
to pay no attention to the numbers, just keep writing; and, indeed, lower
level writers are shielded from marketplace pressures, temporarily. But
how can you not feel buoyant if the show is liked, or disappointed if you
played to an empty house? Just remember, it’s not going to do any good to
blame the network (look what they put us up against — of course we have
no numbers), or blame viewers (they don’t appreciate us because they’re
all... insert adjective), or blame your producer (he should’ve known the
title ⊟/⊨ ⊕/music/actor/whatever wouldn’t work), or
HOW SHOWS GET ON TV H N 0 THE TV S E R S 0 N G 9
blame yourself (I have no talent). Hey, probably none of those is true.
It takes time for a series to catch on. Assuming you really have 13 guar¬
anteed on the air, and a few critics recommend the show in reviews, and
the marketing people do their thing, and the audience does join you in
Episode Two or Three, and becomes involved in the characters — then:
At Halloween — the end of October — the show-runner gets the call
from the network: You’ve been picked up for the “back nine.” You’ll
have an entire first season for the series to grow and stake its turf.
Breathe out now.
COMPLETING THE SEASON
When I used to work as a freelancer, I often made my whole year’s
salary between October and February. By then enough of the season is
in place so some of the early tension is eased. Under an agreement with
the Writers Guild, shows with full-season orders must give out two free¬
lance assignments. These not only extend opportunities to new writers
and those in “protected categories” (ethnic minorities or disabled, for
example), but freelance scripts also can be auditions for the staff. They
bring relief and fresh perspectives and stories to an exhausted staff. Or so
the theory goes.
In reality, most shows are written entirely by the staff, and the few
outsiders tend to be friends or writers coming off cancelled shows. Still,
go ahead and pitch a freelance episode in the fall or winter. It’s a good
way to meet producers, and certainly a way to break in. (More about that
in Chapter Six.)
In the absence of a written bible, if you’re a freelancer needing the rules of
a series, my advice is watch it a lot and check the Web sites. If the series
is so new nothing can be found, and you’ve been invited in to pitch, the
producer will messenger the pilot and some scripts to you. Maybe you’ll
get 10 minutes on the phone about their current story needs. Yeah, it’s
tough, but if they like your writing, and you bring areas the show can use,
someone will guide you a little once you have an assignment.
w H I I I N G THE TV D R fl M fl SERIES / P R M D Q II 6 L H S
Writing continues steadily until all 22 shows are in final drafts. Don t
make Thanksgiving plans except dinner time. As for the winter break you
had in school, you’re not going anywhere this year. You’ll have a few days
off at Christmas and New Year’s. Or maybe you’ll be finishing a draft at
home before the wrapping paper is off the floor.
Depending upon how well your series is pulled together (and that
depends largely on the skill of the show-runner), you’ll be slowing down
at the end of February. In fact, your own episodes have probably been
written, so you’re sticking around for revisions, production, and polishes
of scripts by other writers. Even if you’re mostly done, follow every¬
thing through “post.” Not only is the series very much alive with new
episodes airing every week, but you want to preserve your position for
the next year.
If the first season was a resounding success, the show-runner will have
early notice it’s been renewed. But plenty of first-time series are uncer¬
tain down to the wire, just like pilots. It’s awful, from a writer’s point of
view. You want to create a season ender that entices viewers to watch in
the fall, and yet if you’re not being picked up for a second season, the
impulse is to go out bravely and close the story arc. Not knowing, the
producer will opt for the cliffhanger, while the staff hangs on its own
cliff. This happens during:
HIATUS
Vacation — yay! For a network series writer, spring is like summer and
winter holidays rolled into a mass getaway. The hiatus might last three
months from late March until July, or be as limited as a month and a
half — April to late May. If the staff is assured it’s coming back, this is a
fling of freedom. If everyone’s worried, the agents sniff around for a jump
to another show. In any case, the break is total. Many shows lock their
offices and leave nothing but an answering machine; even the receptionist
is gone — far away, after 40 weeks non-stop.
This brings us all the way back to where we started, as the cycle spins
around and around and around.
HOW SHOWS GET ON TV H N D THE TV SEASON
Mmm
Hn mniiNiiK
That traditional network paradigm is broadly accurate for, well, traditional
networks. But in the alternate universe of cable television you’ll encounter
different patterns. For example, Deadwood on HBO did 12 episodes
per year, not 22. The entire season was written in winter and spring,
so all scripts were finished before any production begins. They started
shooting around the end of July, which is actually similar to networks, but
Deadwood’s next season didn’t begin airing until the following March,
when many network shows are winding down. You’ll read more about
this in the “Guest Speakers” sections, where David Milch, the show’s
creator, comments on how doing a series for HBO after years at a network
affects him as an artist.
Similarly, in the “Spotlight on Writing Procedurals” following Chapter
Three, Melissa Rosenberg of Dexter reveals several differences she experi¬
enced at Showtime after years writing for network shows.
Here’s another configuration: In 2000, Showtime optioned a British series
with the strange title. Queer as Folk. Everyone assumed the American
version would be so diluted it would lose the guts that made it worth
buying. After all, nothing like that had ever been done here. Then, one
Sunday, writers Ron Cowan and Daniel Lippman, who had struggled to
create television movies about gay life within network standards, happened
to read about this option in a newspaper. They got in touch with Showtime,
and said they’d do it, if they got complete creative freedom — unimagi¬
nable at a network. Not only did Showtime give them their freedom, but
also a full 22-episode order. In the Writers Guild membership magazine
Written By, Cowan and Lippman said, “The handcuffs had been removed;
we’d been released from the prison of network television. And the ques¬
tion posed to any newly freed man was posed to us: ‘Now that you have
your freedom, what do you plan to do with it?”’
In the future, you’ll be entering an industry whose long-established systems
are no longer as certain as in the traditional model. The predictable cycles
are changing, and new outlets are experimenting with different ways of
making and delivering stories to an expanding audience. So ask your¬
selves a version of Cowan and Lippman’s question: Now that you’ll have
choices, what do you plan to do with them?
G 2 W R I I I N 6 THE TV D R H M H SERIES / P R M 0 D U G L R S
Creating a new TV show follows specific steps from concept to network
sale.
Once on the air, a show also relies on definite steps of ⊧ from
a pilot, through writing and producing, to being renewed.
In the earliest stages, a show creator might write a format or pilot script in
the hope of getting a green-light to produce the pilot, which is a prototype
for the series. The pilot together with a “package” competes with other
new series for a time slot, known as a “pick up.”
A full 22-week traditional season would occupy the writing staff through
an intense 40-week schedule before hiatus. Some new series get only
“short orders,” though.
On cable stations, the seasons and production times may differ but the
general ⊧ process has the same creative components and
opportunities for writers.
im]
JPEHKEH:
STEVEN GOCHCO
Steven Bochco is creator and executive producer of NYPD Blue and many
other series including Hill Street Blues.
PD: You’re generally regarded as a pioneer, from Hill Street Blues all
the way up to some exciting experimental stuff. Of the other cop shows
you’ve done — Hill Street Blues, Murder One, NYPD Blue, Cop Rock
and Brooklyn South — do you see any trajectory in what you want to do
with television, from Hill Street on}
SB: Yes and no. I don’t think we started Hill Street with any grand notion
of changing the medium. I mean, we just created the show and then, at
some point in the process, the show began creating the show. And by that
I mean that certain things that we committed to conceptually forced us to
do other things that complemented the original things we’d done.
When you end up creating a show with seven, eight, nine characters — in
response to that, ask yourself how can you appropriately dramatize that
many characters within the framework of an hour television show? And
the answer is that you can’t. So you say, okay, what we have to do is spill
over the sides of our form and start telling multi-⊗, more serial kinds
of stories. Even though any given character may not have but three scenes
in an hour, those three scenes are part of a 15-⊕ storyline that runs
over numerous episodes. So that was simply a matter of trying to react to
the initial things we did. The show began to dictate what it needed to be.
Probably the smartest thing that ⊯ [Kozoll] and I did was to let it
take us there instead of trying to hack away to get back into the box. We
just let it spill over the sides.
PD: So you didn’t go into it thinking you were going to have 14
characters?
63
G 4 WHITING THE TV D R H M R 5 E H I E S / P R M DOGGERS
SB: No, we just sort of started out knowing what we didn’t want to do.
We didn’t want to do the typical cop shows that we’d been involved in
writing and producing for years because we didn’t feel like we had a lot
more to bring to that kind of programming. So the idea of focusing, to
some degree, on these cops’ personal lives was appealing. But that’s all we
had when we started, and it just kind of organically evolved.
PD: It’s generally considered the progenitor of a whole wave of television
that is not necessarily about cops at all.
SB: The next show that adopted our style was St. Elsewhere. That came
on the next year with my friend Bruce Paltrow. They were downstairs, we
were upstairs. One of the reasons people, to this day, erroneously credited
me with St. Elsewhere is that it had so much similarity in style and form.
But then it’s time to move on. When we started looking at NYPD Blue, I
didn’t have a lot of interest in doing another cop show unless I could do
something with the form that would really change television. That was the
only time that I really, consciously thought, here’s an opportunity to do
something in the medium that could change it.
PD: What were some specific things you wanted to change?
SB: It was nothing exotic. I just really wanted to expand the language and
visual palette. And a cop show seemed a more legitimate canvas on which
to do it rather than a family or legal drama. There’s just something so
gritty and blue collar about a cop show that the language seems organic.
So I thought, if you’re going to fight that battle, you have to justify doing
it on the grounds that not doing it is really less than realistic.
PD: I think that’s what’s struck me about all of your shows. Above all,
they’re honest and real. These people are the way people are.
SB: Some of them are racist and some are cowards and some are fright¬
ened and some are mean spirited, and you know, some people just don’t
like each other. It’s politics in the workplace, so that’s the stuff you always
go to. And, you know, David [Milch] and I had always wanted to work
together again. He wanted to do a cop show. I was less interested in a cop
show but wanted to do this thing to change television. I didn’t want to do
it in a vacuum, but there really hadn’t been a one-hour hit since L.A. Law
in 1986 and here we were in 1991. The hour drama was in the toilet and
that’s my business, so my business was in the toilet.
GUEST SPEAKER: STEVEN B 0 C A C D G 5
I thought the only shot we had at reviving the form is if we were willing
to compete with cable television. So that was my pitch to ABC when they
wanted a cop show from me. I remember Bob Iger [now President and
COO of the Walt Disney Company, which owns ABC] saying to me, “I
made a huge deal with you because I wanted another Hill Street Blues
and what did I get — a 16-year-old doctor [Doogie Howser] and a bunch
of cops who sing.” So I said: I’ll give you the cop show you want, but be
careful what you wish for, because the price is this, the language and the
nudity. It’s one thing to say yes to that theory, and it’s another thing to
get that script, and you’ve got something that’s never been seen or heard
before in television. Originally, the show was supposed to go on in the fall
of 1992, and it didn’t because we couldn’t agree on language and sex. I
refused to water it down. I said you take it as it is or we’ll move on. So it
got postponed a year.
I remember flying... with the president of our company and my attorney
and we had a meeting... with all the creative, legal, broadcast standards
executives, and they spent an hour and a half saying why we couldn’t
make the show. And we spent an hour and a half explaining why we
couldn’t make it any other way. I flew back home convinced that it was
a dead show. And, finally, they came around. I created a real paper trail
along the way, [knowing] that given half a chance, they’d renege. And they
did try on various occasions, but I’d been so conscious about the paper
trail, I could always go back and say here it is.
In the months before the show went on we were getting thousands and
thousands of pieces of mail — they were coming in sacks every week,
from the religious right who’d spent a million dollars taking out full-page
ads in major newspapers in America, beating us over the head for being
pornographic. But, of course, no one had seen the show, which was very
offensive. It would have been one thing if they’d seen it and taken issue
with it. But these ads were so cynical, manipulative, and untrue about the
content of the show — I mean, everything I wanted to do, I wanted to
accomplish.
Interestingly, we succeeded, not by the show itself but by the panic-stricken
religious right because they created a stir that no publicity machine in the
world could duplicate. And thank God they did because given all the
anxiety about the show, if we had faltered a moment in the ratings then
I think we would have been gone in three weeks. But we came out of the
shoot huge.
G G WHITING THE TV D H fl M fl 5 E R I E S / P H M D 0 U G I fl 5
PD: Do you think that the same story could be told today if someone went
in with something the religious right opposed in the same way?
SB: No I don’t, I don’t. Not today. Maybe next year, maybe five years
from now, because all that is cyclical. A lot of it is tied to election cycles.
More than anything right now, it’s a function of corporate terror. As the
television industry has become more and more vertically integrated, all
the networks are now divisions of huge corporate entities, and in that
environment they’re fearful of the government and of advertisers and of
their own stockholders, that it’s just fear of not rocking the boat, it’s just
get the ratings, make the ad time, get the dollars. Ultimately, it’s a self-
defeating attitude.
PD: Which brings us to the question of cable: David [Milch] mentioned
having more power at HBO. You took a shot at a cable show too...
SB: We developed a show for F/X about the war in Iraq, which was a very
different experience. They really have a creative model that’s 180 degrees
opposite from the broadcast networks. They want to be different. They
want to be controversial, edgy, out there with stuff that isn’t being done
anywhere else. It puts them in a position of being an alternative universe
and so, with the exception of the available dollars because it’s still a small
dollars universe, there aren’t too many differences in what you can do at
F/X compared to what you can do on HBO. So it was a lot of fun.
There are very bright network executives over there, terrific guys and
committed to their shows, which is very refreshing — they’ve got The
Shield, Nip/Tuck, and Rescue Me. They’re trying to find shows that are
unique, that brand them in a certain way. And they came to us with this
idea. My initial impulse was, “Gee, I’m the wrong person to do that.” I’ve
never been in the military.
PD: You’ve never been a cop either.
SB: True. It’s why I rethought my position, among other things. I also
have a political point of view about the war that I don’t have about cops
in general. I’ve always maintained, for myself, a very strict prohibition of
using these shows as any kind of a platform for my own political posi¬
tions on anything. I’m not going to say it’s wrong to do that, I’m just
not comfortable to do that. Norman Lear was always unabashed on his
political positions both personally and professionally. And that’s great. I
just never wanted to politicize my shows in any way. I’ve had a show on
primetime continuously for the last 24 years, since January 1981, and, you
M E S T SPEAKER: STEVEN A 0 C A C 0 B 1
know, that’s a real responsibility and a real trust. And I just personally, am
not comfortable using that position to proselytize.
PD: What do you think you owe the audience.^
SB: A good story.
PD: And a good story to you means...?
SB: A good story to me means all kinds of things. First, a good story has a
⊤, a ⊦, a complication, and ⊡. In some fundamental
way, that gives the audience a certain pleasure and satisfaction in having
spent their hour in a worthwhile pursuit; and if, in addition to that, it
makes them think about something or gives them a different point of view
about something, then great. If it engages their sensibilities in a way they
haven’t anticipated — great. Those are all wonderful bonuses but that all
stems from a good story.
PD: I got more than that from the best episodes of NYPD Blue.
SB: You know why? The good ones all have good stories, and the great
ones have great stories. And when you’re telling a great story, the inherent
elements in great storytelling are complex thematic moral and ethical
ambiguities, considerations of big human elements and conditions. Those
are the kinds of big ⊙ issues that are embraced when you are telling
great stories.
⊮ always starts with the story. If you say, “I got to do an episode about
free speech” then you’re [lost]. You’re starting from the wrong place. You
tell a great story and themes emerge, so that’s just “Writing 101.” I’m just
a nut about story, story, story, story.
PD: At one point you were developing three shows at the same time. How
could you stay close to all of them?
SB: First of all, I’ve been doing it for over 30 years, so I’ve learned how to
be really good at it. And also it’s just an issue of time management. I’m good
at managing my time. Every one of those shows is at a different part of its
evolution, so a show like NYPD Blue requires a fraction of a time that the
new show requires because all of us speak a common language. The show
has such a long and complex memory to think about that you don’t have to
invent what’s there. My only chore in the last season of NYPD Blue was to
make sure we finished the series in a way that’s really satisfying to an audi¬
ence and make them feel like they didn’t get schmucked.
E e W R I T I N B IRE TV H R fl M R SE R I E 5 / P R M D 0 U 6 I R S
And, again, storytelling, except it’s a different consideration of story.
You’re not considering story events, although you have to, as much as
you’re looking at character arcs. How do you take all of these characters
on a season-long journey that organically spins them into their next life?
So the audience goes, ah, that felt good, and I’m sad but I get it and I’ll
miss these people. But that’s a different type of thinking, and that’s been
going on in my head for a long time. The time that I’m spending with the
writers now is almost exclusively devoted to character arcs because they’ll
come up with the stories, and we have a well of stories from cops we
collected, so that part of it will almost take care of itself.
A new show requires a lot of effort because it’s new guys and new concepts,
⊮’s always fun with a good new show because you get to turn over
cards. It takes about two years, maybe three, to turn over all your major
cards in a new show — gross character revelations in a drama, oohhh, he’s
a drunk, ohhhh, she’s gay. After three years, the job changes, the task of
maintaining a show is a different task. So at the ⊤, when every¬
thing’s working right, and this one is; it’s huge fun because it’s invention.
PD: How do you keep your edge?
SB: I had a wonderful mentor years ago who said to me, Steven, you
either have to have “f you” money or “f you” attitude. And I didn’t have
“f you” money so I had to develop an “f you” attitude which wasn’t that
hard to do. And once I got it, I just thought, well this works. I’m much
more selective who I say that to these days.
PD: I’m wondering if there’s anything you’d like to say to students in film
schools who are thinking about television careers.
SB: Go to medical school. Not to be a doctor, go to medical school, so
that when you go back into television you’ll have something to write
about. Have a life. It’s my one beef with most young writers. If you want
to be a director or producer, that’s one thing. Those are skills you can
learn. But, to be a writer, you got to have something to write about. Not
that everybody doesn’t, we’ve all lived lives, but when you’re twenty-one,
you know, you haven’t lived much of a life unless you’ve had an extraor¬
dinary experience to write about.
Unfortunately, most really young writers form their sense of life from
watching television so what you end up getting is this sort of “Xerox” of
life which is never the substitute for the real thing. So I always tell students,
pursue your dream but in the meantime, get a real job and have a real life.
6 U E 5 T 5 P E (i K E R ; STEVEN B D C H C 0 E S
PD: Why do you do television instead of movies?
SB: Easy. Easy, easy, easy. It’s a better medium. Even w^ith all the bullshit
of television, it’s still a more provocative medium than the movie business.
The movie business is basically appealing to kids and cretinous teenagers.
That’s essentially what the movie business is. Very few are, in any serious
way, committed to making thoughtful, provocative medium to low-budget
movies that fill a real niche in the movie going experience. Everybody’s
looking for Spider-Man and ⊭ and all those other men, and big high
concept. Those are fun and, in the summertime, kids flock to them, but
that’s not what I do.
Believe me, for any writer, you’re going to have more fun and learn more
and be more productive writing in television than in the movies. You’re
not going to have to share credit with 15 other idiots. You’re not going
to be abused and disrespected by 15 jerks in suits who have too much
time on their hands and all they want to do is eat lunch. Television is a
job — you got to get it on, you got to get it out, the writers are going to
write their scripts, they’re going to get on the tube. And that’s great. If
you’re lucky enough to get on a successful show, you’re going to do more
credited writing in two years than most movie writers do in a lifetime. So
it’s a much more satisfying medium for writers.
POJhCRIPl
In 2007 Steven Bochco launched an Internet series, “Cafe Confidential,”
which runs on the video site Metacafe. After decades of making 60-minute
shows, Bochco’s new “episodes” are closer to 60 seconds. But the heart
is the same: it’s all about characters and their stories; storytelling on the
frontier.
How
n CIIIS5IC iCRIPI
1$ Crafted
Constructing your episode may seem daunting at first, but hour dramas
— especially primetime network shows — follow a general template. Your
insights into character, talent with ⊘, inventiveness in storytelling,
and the depth of meaning are all creative qualities beyond any system.
But I’ve found that using a basic pattern can actually release your artistry
because you don’t have to worry whether the underlying skeleton will
hold up.
Initially, I even advise students to try to separate their right brain and left
brain functions — the creative and the analytical. We know how we are
as artists, ready to run off with the circus, or an emotional explosion.
Those moments when passion takes over are gifts, and if you’re touched
by a cinematically hot encounter between characters, go ahead and write
it down. The best writing is like trying to catch the wind anyway. But then
put that piece of writing aside and return to engineering your script in the
cold light of the left brain.
Even if you could somehow begin at page one and steam your way through
to page 60 in a single creative breath (and I don’t think anyone can), tele¬
vision series don’t work like that. As you’ll discover in Chapter Five, you’ll
be collaborating with a staff and will have to submit an outline or ⊜
sheet (more about those in Chapter Four) prior to writing your teleplay.
70
HOW H C I H S 5 I C SCRIPT IS CRAFTED 7 1
IHE DRnMHTIC BEHT
Before we go further, keep in mind the nature of a screenplay ⊕, as
I’m sure you’ve learned in screenwriting courses or books. A dramatic
⊕ is the essential building block of storytelling on screen and should
have a complete dramatic structure. That means each ⊕ has a moti¬
vated ⊛ who wants something and drives the action to get it
through ⊖ with an opposition, usually an equally motivated antago¬
nist. That’s just a basic statement of story plotting. If you’re stuck on this
point, then take a break and refresh yourself on screenwriting before you
move on to TV. Seriously. Writing television drama isn’t easier than theat¬
rical movies, even though it’s shorter; actually it’s more difficult because it
requires all the same elements compressed in a tighter form.
When you look at the sample script pages that follow you’ll notice numbers
at the sides. Those are automatically generated by screenwriting software
in preparing a “shooting script” (that means the final draft which goes
into production), but you should not have numbers on your presentation
draft. I left these numbers in to help refer to sections as I discuss them
(and because these really are from shooting scripts). The numbers indicate
“Slug Lines,” also called “⊕ Headings,” but they are not scenes in
the dramatic sense I’m using. For example, an establishing shot outside a
building is not a full dramatic ⊕, though it is a location that physical
production needs to plan. For our purposes, a dramatic ⊜ may encom¬
pass one or more slug lines; the key is identifying a step of the story, not a
shot. You’ll see more examples when I talk about the script segments.
l
n, C llQRIEl
We’re going to look at a show that uses parallel storytelling. In this
sample, the three story lines are not sub-plots, but independent tales each
involving distinct guest cast. Since they occur within the same arena — a
New York detective precinct — and they feature the same main cast, the
stories are sometimes interwoven, sometimes blended, sometimes juxta¬
posed. Clearly, in style and tone they are part of the same show, and you
might find a ⊙ linking all the stories within an episode.
The largest (or most resonant) story is called “A.” The second most impor¬
tant story is “B.” And the third, “C” story is sometimes comic relief in an
otherwise serious show, or may be a “runner,” such as a recurring incident
7 2 WRITING IRE IV 0 R R M R SERIES / P R M D 0 U 6 L R S
or character issue. Like any description of writing methods, those distinc¬
tions are flexible. Among variations, you may find A and B stories that are
equal in weight, shows where a C story in one episode is a seed ⊤
a major arc in subsequent episodes, and shows that normally have three
stories but might turn up with two or four. Again, I’m giving you a sense
of the overall design, not laying down the law.
Some series usually have more than three stories — ER, for example.
And some are “A” story only, for example Monk and X-Files. Before you
speculate a show, carefully study how it’s crafted.
Each series has its own ways, but I’ve come up with a generic grid that fits
many network shows. I use it to analyze sample episodes in my classes, and
here’s a blank one you can apply to the excerpts printed in this chapter.
For practice, try it while you’re watching TV. Once you get the hang of
it, you can also use this simple chart in the early planning stages of an
original script (Chart 3.1).
Chart 3.1 Basic Four-Act Grid
now fl CLASSIC SCRIPT IS CRAFTED 7 3
Chart 3.2 Sample Six-Act Grid
Approximately 20-24 scenes total
Chart 3.3 Seven-Act Concept
half hour
7 4 WRITING THE TV D R fl M H T E R I E 5 / P R M D a II G L fl 5
Four Rct Grid
The titles on the top are the four acts of an hour episode. Remember
from Chapter One that on network television (but not on premium cable
like HBO) commercial breaks occur roughly every 13 to 15 minutes.
Dividing 15 minutes into 60 minutes gives you the four acts. Now, an
hour drama doesn’t really run an hour — it’s actually less than 50 minutes
after commercials. And each act isn’t really 15 minutes — more like 12.
But for planning a script, figure that ⊬ ends around page 17 or 18
if the show has a teaser (more about teasers in a minute); Act Two ends
around page 30; Act Three at 45; and Act Four around 60 (or anywhere
from 55 or so to 65).
On the left of the grid you see numbers one through seven. Those are the
scenes in each act. Why seven.^ Well, you won’t always have seven, in fact.
Five solid scenes could fill out an act in some cases, and in “vignette”
shows where scenes are quick, you might find yourself counting up to
nine or ten. The basis for the list of seven is the two-minute ⊕. Back to
arithmetic: If an act is 14 minutes, and each ⊕ is around two minutes,
14 divided by 2 = 7.
Five rnd Fix Rci firuciure
In 2006 some network and basic cable shows including the popular Grey's
Anatomy and Lost went to five acts, and then ABC network mandated six
acts for all its new shows, so they became six acts. You can guess why:
more commercial breaks. I don’t know any writers who like this change
which seems pushed by desperation to pump revenues when network
advertising rates are declining and the audience has discovered the mute
button, not to mention all the people who record shows to omit commer¬
cials altogether. Not every show is guilty, though. House, on Fox, is still
four acts (plus a teaser) for example. But elsewhere, potentially interesting
shows such as Nip/Tuck (on FX) are so chopped up the drama begins to
feel like decoration between the ads.
Like it or not, you need to find out if the show you’re speculating has
four, five, six or even seven acts, and how to re-configure your structure,
f suggest you begin with the four-act idea. Then take what used to be
the teaser and lengthen it to around ten pages to create a new ⊬.
Be sure you open directly into the story with jeopardy or action or a
H D W fl CLASSIC SCRIPT IS CRAFTED 7 5
provocative issue because this is where you need to hook the audience
(and the reader).
Each of the succeeding acts will be shorter than in a four act plan — roughly
10 pages each. In a six-act structure, you might have only 20 scenes in the
entire hour, with acts only around eight pages long. Try thinking in terms of
Act Six being a tag or the final shoe dropping, or a twist. You might see an
Act Six that runs as short as five minutes. On Nip/Tuck, to use an example
of a six-act (or teaser plus five) show, the writers often complete all dramatic
arcs at the end of Act Five (which is the same as a show with teaser plus
four), and use the short sixth act to add a surprising twist that, in a way,
might be considered a teaser for the next episode because it incites a new
issue or challenge rather than concluding the current storyline.
lEviN Hch? You Goiifl Ge Kidding!
Just as I was finishing this Second Edition, a producer-writer colleague
stopped me on campus at USC and uttered, his ⊞ aghast, “I saw a
seven-act script.” Well, I’d written two-hour television movies that were
seven acts, which isn’t unusual for a movie, so at first I didn’t understand
his alarm.
“No,” he pressed, “it was an hour episode of...” and he named a major
network show. They’d shown the bizarre script to him as a sample, just
that morning, inviting him to consider joining the staff. He still hadn’t
recovered.
“They’re crazy,” he seethed, “this is the golden age of television; drama
has never been better; and they’re chasing everyone away!”
As I talked him down from the ledge, we tried to reason out the seven
acts. No mistaking the problem, though. At seven acts, dramatic material
would occupy 40 minutes or less. The remaining 20 minutes would go to
ads and promotions which would be flashier than the show, produced on
a higher per-minute budget, and hard to escape, leaving the drama looking
like scraps between the commercials. The once-interesting series might lie
in shards.
We both knew why the network forced this structure. Their advertising
revenue was down because so many other options (and viewers) are
available on cable stations and the internet. It’s easy, but faulty, accounting:
7 B W R I I I N B THE TV D R fl M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P R M 0 0 U E L R 5
If a buyer used to spend a dollar to get the attention of ten people, but
now only five people are watching, he might ask for twice as many adver¬
tising spots for his same dollar. Of course, viewer attention doesn’t really
work like that. The five remaining viewers are asleep, or avoiding the ads
by recording shows and fast-forwarding through them, or buying whole
seasons of shows on DVDs, or surfing other channels.
Of course. I’m exaggerating. Networks are still much larger than cable
stations or any other venue for drama. Nevertheless, for many writers,
artistic death by a thousand cuts isn’t worth the network advantages.
My colleague was swearing off writing for networks altogether, “I’d rather
make a fraction of the money and do a fraction of the season for a fraction
of the audience on Showtime.”
Now, that’s good news for guess who: YOU! If you’re just ⊤, the
sound of television’s top writers receding in the distance towards the many
creative opportunities off-network might leave some room for you to break
in. So, in the spirit of thinking positively. I’ve included a hypothetical seven-
act illustration. Once you think about it, the structure becomes less weird.
For example, the three acts in the first half hour are not very different
from the traditional two acts plus a long teaser. Then, if you knock off
that seventh act as a tag, you really have only acts four, five and six —
one more act in the second half hour than in traditional shows. Think
about how many cliffhangers or twists you can generate in fast-moving
stories for your ensemble. With all those “reveals,” clues and relationship
conflicts among a large cast, you can probably come up with a rhythm
that both advances the stories and leaves viewers wanting to un-mute the
television after the break.
In other words, no matter what they throw at you, make it work. A clever
writer can create seven gripping acts by staying rooted in the characters.
See, that’s not so different, after all.
M
IHE IWD-PmiE
I use the two-page ⊕ as a target for students partly because inexperi¬
enced writers have difficulty accomplishing a complete dramatic ⊜ in
fewer pages, and when they write longer than two pages, their scenes tend
to lose focus or become redundant.
HOW fl C L fl 5 5 I C 5 C R I P T IS C R fl F I [ D 7 7
Historically, screen scenes used to be long, more like stage plays. If you
look at great movies from the 1940s, like the ones starring Humphrey
Bogart, you’ll see some scenes that run five or even seven pages. They
reflect a different era where the slow evolvement of a dramatic moment,
gradually experienced, was part of the pace of life. Whether the change
was caused by the 15-second information module of Sesame Street, or TV
ads where a one-minute commercial is long and 30 seconds is normal, or
the speed of computers, where you’re growling at the screen if a function
takes two seconds — an electronics-savvy populace is quickly bored. If
audience attention drifts, or is way ahead of where you’re going with the
story, you’ve lost your moment. On television today, a one-minute ⊜ is
more welcome than a three-minute ⊕, and if you’re starting page four
of a single encounter, that’s a red flag.
Notice also that I’m using the words “minute” and “page” interchange¬
ably. That’s just shorthand. A minute per page may be an average, ⊮’s
not always accurate. Pages of ⊘ move faster, while action eats up
lots of time. As with all my construction advice. I’m pointing out a general
design, not policing whether you color outside the lines!
IliiNG iHE Grid
If you’re using a four, five or six-act grid to help you understand the form
of an episode on TV, I suggest you begin by recording the show. Watch it
all the way through and name the A, B and C stories (or whatever number
of stories your show has). Attach each story to one of the main cast, and
then summarize that particular arc in a sentence. Keep going, creating a
“log line” for each story.
Once you’ve figured out the stories, re-play the episode. This time, write
a letter in each of the boxes on the grid. For example, if Act I, ⊕ 1
is about the “B” story, put a B in that box. As the grid fills out, it will
probably look sort of like a checkerboard with A,B,C (or other) stories
following each other in a somewhat random pattern.
You’ll notice that the cliffhanger that occurs at the end of an act might
not always be a suspenseful moment in the A story; it might be a turning
point in the B story, for example. You’ll also see that sometimes one of
the stories continues for several beats in a row, especially if it’s following a
“line of interest” the writer didn’t want to interrupt. On other occasions.
7 a W R I I I N 6 IRE IV 0 R R M R SERIES / RAM fl D U E L R S
you’ll see one story interposed between beats of another; this might be
used to convey a sense that time has passed between the beats in the first
story (this skipping is also called an “ellipsis”).
No rules exist for how this “checkerboard” should look, so don’t get hung
up trying to match the order of scenes. You’re serving the dramatic tension
of the stories, not some outside system. The point is to recognize the way
parallel stories complement each other.
The grid may also help you track the arcs, and especially if your show
is part of a serial, you might be surprised that one of the storylines ends
in Act Three, or the C story doesn’t begin until Act Two, or Act Four is
entirely about resolving the A story. That’s all okay. Again, the structure
serves the story within the general parameters of a four act episode with
cliffhangers. So learn from other shows but don’t copy.
If you’re using the grid to create an original script, your first foray into
the grid might be to jot notes about key points in the boxes: how the
show opens, the “worst case” cliffhanger which is % through a drama,
and how the show will end. (That % pivot occurs at the end of Act Three
if you have four acts, or in Act Four or Five if your show is divided into
more acts.) You might do that for the A story only, or for both A and B
stories, leaving room to think about the “C” later. Particularly with the
act breaks, it’s helpful to reverse-engineer, stepping backwards from the
cliffhangers to the beats right before to fill in the actions that led to the
jeopardy or collision. That reverse technique may help you figure out your
outline. (I’ll explain more about outlining in Chapter Four.)
IEII5ER5
The excerpts you 11 read in this chapter are from a show that opens with a
“teaser,” though not all series begin with one. A teaser, also called “a cold
⊨, refers to dramatic material before the titles (before the name of
the series and credits). It may be a one-minute “hook,” or as long as ten
minutes that includes several small scenes, making it nearly as full as a
traditional whole act. In any style, it exists to grab viewers faster than the
enemy, which is the remote. The notion is to open the hour with an action,
image, situation or character that provokes enough anticipation to keep
viewers through the title ⊟ and into the ⊫.
r 7 9
HOW H C L H n I C 5 C R I P IS C R H F T E 0
However, increasingly, title sequences along with ⊙ music have been
dumped by networks preferring to grab viewers with uninterrupted drama.
The “tease” is the story itself, and titles scroll over ⊬.
Often, a teaser sets out the problem of an episode. For example, on a
detective show, the crime to be solved may be enacted or discovered in
the teaser. But even within the detective franchise, each show is unique.
Looking back at the classic Miami Vice series, the lush teasers featured
life in Miami and a provocative crime in progress in a textured envi¬
ronment usually involving drugs. The main cast never appeared in the
teaser. Similarly, in The X-Files, a mysterious phenomenon occupied the
cinematic teaser, though Mulder and Scully didn’t learn about it until they
were contacted in their office in ⊬. In contrast, both Law and Order
(classic) and NYPD Blue usually opened with the detectives arriving at a
crime ⊕ after the deed is done.
In many law and medical shows, a case arrives and incites the events of
the episode. But in ER and Grey’s Anatomy, where emphasis is on the
ensemble cast and episodes usually cover a single day, teasers have some¬
times shown the continuing characters waking, getting ready for work,
or traveling to work, launching their personal stories that will spin out in
the episode.
HBO’s Six Feet Under always opened with someone dying (as bizarrely
as possible) who turned up in the Fisher family funeral home in ⊬,
underlining the show’s notion that life is random. But that teaser was
rarely a component of the episode’s drama; its link is thematic. The prison
drama OZ, which used to run on HBO, also opened with ⊙ rather
than continuing story — a philosophical monologue, in fact. Even the
classic sitcom Cheers was an example of a teaser that reminded viewers
of the show’s world (a neighborhood bar where “everybody knows your
name”), instead of ⊤ a dramatic arc.
If you’re a new writer, though, I recommend sticking with story rather
than message. A swiftly propelled dramatic tension will lure a reader to
turn the page and a viewer to see what happens next. Real storytelling is
difficult, and I’ve seen too many students fool themselves into thinking
they can impress by ⊨ with a weighty ⊙ or abstruse philosophy,
when they’re actually avoiding the challenge of impelling an arc. The best
teasers tend to be the best drama.
WRITING THE TV 0 R fl M fl SERIES / P R M D D U G L R S
iBOyi 1IIE5E EXCERPIJ...
With appreciation to Steven Bochco, Executive Producer of NYPD Blue
and many other great drama series, who graciously gave permission, here
is the Teaser and ⊬ of each of two Emmy-winning episodes that ran
four years apart. I’ve chosen these historic examples partly because they’re
so clearly crafted that you can easily grasp the structure, and also because
they’ve stood the test of time.
The first excerpt is from “Simone Says,” which aired at the ⊤
of 1995; story by Steven Bochco, David Milch, Walon Green; teleplay
by David Milch, Walon Green. This episode introduced the character
of Bobby Simone (played by Jimmy Smits) in the ⊦ of the second
season. Other main cast — Andy Sipowicz (the acclaimed Dennis Franz),
Lt. Fancy, Detectives Lesniak, Martinez and Medavoy, Asst. D.A. Sylvia
Costas, and receptionist Donna, were established in the series at this point;
the remaining names are guest cast. Read and try to identify the stories
and think about the form. Following the script pages, I will analyze its
dramatic elements.
After that, you’ll see another episode segment, along with a discussion.
HOW fl C t fl S 5 I C SCRIPT IS C R fl F T E 0
NYPD BLUE
"Simone Savs"
FADE IN:
1 EXT. PRECINCT - DAY 1
To establish --
2 INT. LAVATORY - LOCKER ROOM - DAY 2
SIPOWICZ enters from the hallway wearing his jacket and
carrying a small paper bag from a drug store. He goes to his
locker, opens it takes his jacket off and hangs it on the
open locker door. Crossing to the sink with the bag, he
glances around as he steps in front of the mirror, removes a
pair of drug store reading glasses from the bag and puts them
on. A large tag hangs from the glasses, dangling against his
cheek as he unhappily studies himself in the mirror. Sipowicz
snatches away the glasses and stuffs them back in the paper
bag as someone comes in.
He turns and sees BOBBY SIMONE moving to the bank of lockers
to the left of the door, checking a small piece of paper in
his hand on which a locker number's been written.
SIMONE
'Morning.
SIPOWICZ
How's it going?
Sipowicz steps over to him --
SIPOWICZ (CONT'D)
Andy Sipowicz.
Simone regards him, smiles and extends his hand --
SIMONE
Bobby Simone, nice to meet you,
Andy.
SIPOWICZ
Yeah.
Sipowicz clears his throat, steps to the door and exits. Hold
a ⊜ on Simone, crossing Kelly's name off the locker,
inscribing his own, then --
CUT TO:
B 2 W R I I I N 6 TV D R R M R SERIES / P R M D 0 II E L R S
2 .
3 INT. SQUAD ROOM - DAY 3
Sipowicz crosses the Squad Room directly to Fancy's office.
4 INT. FANCY'S OFFICE - DAY 4
FANCY looks up to see Sipowicz.
FANCY
'Morning Andy.
SIPOWICZ
That's no good. That's not gonna
work.
FANCY
What isn't?
SIPOWICZ
I just met this new guy.
FANCY
Simone.
SIPOWICZ
Yeah that's not gonna work out.
FANCY
What happened?
SIPOWICZ
(waves dismissal)
Don't get me started.
Fancy watches Sipowicz pace. BG In the Squad Room we see
Simone meeting Medavoy, Martinez.
SIPOWICZ (CONT'D)
The whole attitude's wrong. "How
you doing," this type of thing.
Fancy s phone rings. As he picks up the receiver —
FANCY
He asked how you were doing?
(into receiver)
Lieutenant Fancy.
(⊜)
Okay/
(hangs up)
We're got a homicide.
(MORE)
now fl C L II 5 5 I C SCRIPT IS CRAFTED B 3
3 .
FANCY(cont'd)
(⊜)
You're senior in the Squad. I want
him with you, at least till he
learns the precinct.
Sipowicz shalces his head, disaffected with his entire lot --
SIPOVTICZ
I need glasses and everything else.
Off Fancy, as Sipowicz exists his office --
5 INT. DONNA'S DESK - DAY
Donna looks up from her desk to see JAMES ABRUZZO.
ABRUZZO
Yeah, I'm here to see Adrianne
Lesniak.
DONNA
Your name is ...
Abruzzo ignores her question, crosses to LESNIAK at her desk.
Lesniak, just arrived, is putting her things away. She sees
him and a look of weary desperation crosses her face --
LESNIAK
Jimmy ...
ABRUZZO
What? It's not like you give me a
choice.
Lesniak faces him from her desk --
LESNIAK
Not here. Please.
He settles in a chair facing her --
ABRUZZO
Then where? I can't talk to you
outside work 'cause I don't know
where you're staying anymore, I
can't call you here, 'cause you've
told that bitch at the desk not to
put me through ...
(louder)
Where am I supposed to talk to you?
fi 4 WHITING TV D H H M fl 5 E H I E 5 / P H M D 0 II 6 L H S
.
4
LESNIAK
We've got nothing left to talk
about.
Abruzzo sees Donna staring at him ==
ABRUZZO
What are you looking at?
Donna looks back to her desk. She lifts the phone.
Abruzzo leans close to Lesniak, grips her wrist --
ABRUZZO (CONT'D)
You don't know how much I love you.
You don't know what I'd do for you.
LESNIAK
You're drunk; Let go.
She tries to snatch her wrist away as Fancy steps up behind
Abruzzo.
FANCY
All right, you get up and you get
the hell away from Detective
Lesniak.
Abruzzo slowly turns his head and looks at Fancy.
ABRUZZO
No, you get back. I'm holding a .38
pointed straight at her guts.
LESNIAK
Jimmy.
ABRUZZO
Let's go. You want to keep this
private, we'll talk in private.
He brings her to her feet.
People in the room are frozen until Fancy lunges, grabs
Abruzzo's gun hand and swings the pistol toward the ceiling.
A shot is fired, but Fancy hangs onto the gun, preventing the
cylinder from rotating to fire again. Abruzzo punches at
Fancy who hangs on with both hands.
Sipowicz lunges for him but a kick from Abruzzo catches him
in the stomach, he's hurled back and his lower spine slams
against a desk.
HOW fl C L R 5 5 I C SCRIPT IS C R R F T E R R 5
5 .
Abruzzo is pulling at the gun, swinging it wildly from side
to aide while Fancy hangs on.
From over a desk, Simone flies through the air and hits
Abruzzo with a tackle that hurls him to the ground. Fancy
pulls away with the gun as Simone spins Abruzzo around and
twists his arms behind him.
As Sipowicz comes forward with obvious lower back pain,
Simone cuffs Abruzzo. Abruzzo is hauled to his feet in the
circle of people.
LESNIAK
(miserably protective)
He's from the two-seven.
Lieutenant, he's on the job.
FANCY
He's under arrest.
(to Donna)
Get a D.A. down here.
(to the newcomer)
You're Simone?
SIMONE
How you doing Lieutenant?
FANCY
(to Simone and the other
Detectives)
I got this, get to your homicide.
Thirteenth and Third.
ABRUZZO
(to Lesniak)
Are you happy? Look what you've
done to me now.
FANCY
Shut up!
SIMONE
(to Sipowicz)
Are you hurt?
SIPOWICZ
I'll live.
(⊜)
C'mon, ride with me.
Off which --
SMASH CUT TO:
R 6 W R I I I N 6 IV D R fl M R SERIES / P H M D 0 U 6 L R S
6 .
MAIN TITLES
6 EXT. STATION HOUSE - DAY 6
Sipowicz and Simone move toward Sipowicz' car as in b.g.
Medavoy and Martinez do the same.
SIMONE
Lesniak and Abruzzo were going out?
SIPOWICZ
(nods)
She broke up with him, got
transferred, he went half-wacky.
SIMONE
Looks to me like he made the whole
trip.
SIPOWICZ
(⊜)
What was vour last assignment?
SIMONE
Intelligence. I drove for the
Commissioner.
They've reached Sipowicz' car, are about to enter --
SIPOWICZ
You were one of those guys got
grade promotions?
SIMONE
Yeah.
SIPOWICZ
(flat-voiced)
That was nice.
Off Simone, getting in, taking the hit --
CUT TO:
7 EXT. 13TH STREET AND 3RD - DAY
Sipowicz' van pulls up at the crime ⊕ and parks beside
Medavoy's car, from which we see Medavoy and Martinez
exiting. Sipowicz and Simone get out.
In front of a remodeled apartment building, a body is on the
street half under a bloody sheet.
HOW B CLASSIC SCRIPT IS C R R F T E D fl 1
1.
Two units are parked with their bubble gums flashing and a
paramedic van is at the curb. Sipowicz and Simone step up to
the body.
A man in his thirties, dead in a blood-soaked linen suit.
SIMONE
Anyone check for I/D.?
UNIFORM
Waited for you.
MARTINEZ
(to Sipowicz)
Want me to get started on the
canvas?
SIPOWICZ
Yeah, and have a uniform run the
plates on these parked cars.
During which Simone has pulled his gloves on, crouched to
look in the D.O.A.'s pockets for I.D. Sipowicz also crouches
effortfully beside the body.
SIPOWICZ (CONT'D)
(to Simone)
Two in the chest. You see any other
hits?
SIMONE
No.
(reads I.D.)
Raymond Alphonse Martarano, Jr.,
Bensonhurst.
(looks up)
The wise guy's son?
SIPOWICZ
Or someone too stupid to change his
name.
(to Medavoy)
Greg, find out if the M.E.'s
responding and let Fancy know we've
got a mobbed-up stiff.
MEDAVOY
Yeah, all right.
As Medavoy moves off --
UNIFORM
(to Sipowicz)
We found a shell over by that curb.
WRITING TV 0 R H M R SERIES / P R M DOGGERS
8.
SIMONE
I got that.
Simone turns to go check it out, remarks to the Uniform re
the on-lookers --
SIMONE (CONT'D)
Could you move the crime ⊕ back
twenty feet and get me a traffic
cone to put over this shell?
UNIFORM
Sure.
Meanwhile Martinez has approached Sipowicz, points to a man
on the sidewalk.
MARTINEZ
That man's the super, he said the
victim knew one of the tenants.
Sipowicz steps over to GOLDMAN, a ⊦-aged man in a blue
baseball jacket.
MARTINEZ (CONT'D)
Mr. Goldman, this is Detective
Sipowicz.
GOLDMAN
Yeah, hi ...
SIPOWICZ
(re body)
Did you know this man?
GOLDMAN
Mr. Big Shot Ray Martarano Jr.?
He'd tell the lamp-post who he was
if nobody else was around.
SIPOWICZ
Who did he know in the building?
GOLDMAN
2C ... Miss Anderson.
SIPOWICZ
You know where we can find her?
GOLDMAN
She's a model. I'm supposed to call
her agency number for emergencies.
H D W II C L 11 5 5 I C 5 C B I P T 15 C R B F T E D 8 9
9 .
SIPOWICZ
I need that.
Suddenly O.S. Shouts. Sipowicz turns. Across the street a
woman shouts from a doorway --
MISS SAVING
Help me! ... Help! My mother's been
shot!
From the street, Simone races toward the building. He faces a
woman, thirties who is standing in the doorway of an
apartment. Her hand is covered with blood.
SIMONE
Where's your mother?
MISS SAVING
In there ... in there ...
8 INT. GROUND-FLOOR APARTMENT - DAY 8
Simone rushes into the ground=floor apartment. In the room by
the window, an elderly woman is sitting in a chair, her head
to one side. Miss Savino stands in the doorway as Simone
rushes to her mother.
MISS SAVINO
I was at the grocery store.
Simone looks at the woman, who is obviously dead.
MISS SAVINO (CONT'D)
She's dead, isn't she?
SIMONE
(puts his hand on the
woman's shoulder)
She is. I'm sorry.
MISS SAVINO
She was in our own apartment. She
was at her own window.
SIMONE
Why don't you sit down.
MISS SAVINO
That's my mother.
SIMONE
I know, I'm sorry.
9 D WRITING TV D H H M n $ E H I E T / P R M D 0 y 6 L R 5
10 .
Miss Savino raises Tier hands to her face and sobs as Sipowicz
comes through the doorway slightly out of breath, followed by
E.M.S. personnel, who go directly to the body.
SIPOWICZ
What happened?
Simone pushes bac!k the window curtain. A hole is revealed in
the glass where a shot entered, Tcilling the woman.
SIMONE
Stray from the street.
Off which --
CUT TO:
9 EXT. PRECINCT - DAY 9
To establish --
10 INT. SQUAD ROOM - DAY 10
Fancy clears the stairs, enters the Squad, approaching
LesniaTc at her desTc. He keeps his ⊞ quiet.
FANCY
How are you feeling?
Lesniak gestures defeatedly -- doesn't say much so she won't
cry.
LESNIAK
I'm upset.
Fancy nods.
FANCY
I.A.B. Just took him to Bellevue on
a seventy-two hour evaluation.
LESNIAK
And he's a collar, right?
FANCY
(nods)
I alerted the D.A. and Corrections,
if he goes into the system we're
going to be notified.
A ⊜ then
HOW fi CLASSIC SCRIPT IS C R fl F I E 0
11.
LESNIAK
What happened, that's the thing I
kept seeing in my mind. I kept
being afraid that was going to
happen.
FANCY
Adrianne, you want to put a twenty-
eight in, try it again tomorrow?
She shakes her head no.
LESNIAK
I'd like to try it today.
FANCY
Pay attention to how you're
feeling.
LESNIAK
Okay. Thanks.
Fancy nods, moves off, joining the just-arrived Sipowicz. Off
Lesniak --
11 ANGLE - SIPOWICZ AND FANCY 11
FANCY
I heard there was a second D.O.A.
SIPOWICZ
Eighty-two year old woman sitting
at her window.
FANCY
The world's coming up here 'cause
it's Martarano's son. Organized
Crime, Intelligence ...
SIPOWICZ
(sarcastic)
Now I know the case'll clear.
FANCY
Anything off canvass?
SIPOWICZ
No witnesses. He was banging a
model lived in the building.
Simone's finding out where we can
pick her up.
9 2 W R I T I N 6 IV D fl fl M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P R M D D U 6 L R 5
12 .
They look toward Simone at Kelly's old desk --
FANCY
How's that going?
SIPOWICZ
(re Simone)
You know he drove for the P.C.?
FANCY
(nods)
I saw that was his last detail.
SIPOWICZ
(more trying this attitude
on than genuinely
irritated)
I take twenty-two years making
second grade, he gets it for
shooing away squeegee-bums.
Fancy lets it go, heads for his office. Sipowicz moves to
Simone at his desk.
SIMONE
(covers the receiver with
his hand)
The agency told me where she's
working. Give me half a minute.
Sipowicz nods, looks to where COSTAS has just entered, moves
to her --
SIPOWICZ
How's it going?
COSTAS
I was just seeing to Abruzzo.
(re Simone)
Is that the new Detective?
SIPOWICZ
(nods)
Simone, what kind of name is that?
COSTAS
First or last?
SIPOWICZ
If it was his first he'd be a girl.
COSTAS
Last name Simone sounds French.
H D W B CLASSIC SCRIPS IS CRAFTED 9 3
13 .
SIPOWICZ
Yeah, maybe.
They're both looking toward Simone, react as he raises his
⊞ --
SIMONE
Hey, I went through a lot of effort
getting that red cock. I don't want
to lose its color.
(⊜)
I don't want to argue about this.
You tell Billy he can't be around
my place with his blue-barred cock.
Okay thanks.
Simone hangs up. He sees them looking at him --
SIMONE (CONT'D)
I breed birds. Racing pigeons.
Costas nods. Then quietly, to Sipowicz --
COSTAS
Tell him you keep fish.
Sipowicz shakes his head no. Simone's collected his
materials, approaches--
SIPOWICZ
(indicates Costas)
Assistant D.A. Costas.
SIMONE
How do you do?
COSTAS
How do you do.
SIPOWICZ
(to Simone)
They gave you that address?
SIMONE
Yeah, she's working on Seventh
Avenue.
A ⊜, then --
COSTAS
Must be interesting raising
pigeons.
9 4 W n I I I N E TV D R fl M R SERIES / P R M 0 D U E L R S
14 .
SIMONE
It's a lot of fun, gets you
outdoors.
COSTAS
You people and your hobbies.
SIPOWICZ
{to Simone)
Let's go.
Off which --
CUT TO:
12 INT. A GARMENT SHOWROOM - 7TH AVENUE - DAY 12
The place is chaos, hung with cigar smoke as buyers move
among sellers and brokers beside a flood-lit ramp, where
models parade a spring line. Sipowicz and Simone push their
way through, following THELMA LEVY, a tailored fiftyish
woman, wearing a no-nonsense expression.
LEVY
How long will this tie her up?
SIPOWICZ
We won't know till we talk to her.
LEVY
And it couldn't wait until after
she finishes work.
SIPOWICZ
NO.
She leads them into --
13 INT. A DRESSING ROOM - DAY 13
Sipowicz and Simone can't help but look around as they are
suddenly amidst a plethora of nubile bodies in various stages
of undress. Dressers move excitedly in front of them as
clothes are whipped on and off. Ms. Levy stops them.
LEVY
Wait here, I'll get her.
The work is so concentrated and frenetic that for the most
part they are ignored by the nude models attended by ranks of
fey male dressers and a few female fitters.
HOW H CLASSIC SCRIPT IS C fl 0 f T E 0 9 5
15 .
The talk level is deafening. As Sipowicz mops his brow Simone
observes good-humoredly --
SIMONE
What a country huh?
Ms. Levy appears with PAULA ANDERSON, good-looking, lots of
make-up and a pill-assisted figure.
LEVY
Make it as quick as you can.
Levy moves off --
SIPOWICZ
I'm Detective Sipowicz, this is
Detective Simone.
PAULA
What's going on?
SIPOWICZ
Do you know Raymond Martarano, Jr.?
PAULA
Yes.
SIMONE
When's the last time you saw him?
PAULA
We partied last night, then I had
to come to work.
SIMONE
You left him at your apartment?
PAULA
What's going on?
SIPOWICZ
He was murdered this morning
outside your building. Your
downstairs neighbor was killed by a
stray bullet.
Paula takes this in.
PAULA
Which downstairs neighbor?
SIPOWICZ
Mrs. Savino.
9 G WRITING TV D R R M R J E R I E T / P R M D 0 U G E R 5
16 .
It seems liTce a struggle for Paula to Tceep her hard edge.
PAULA
I don't know anything about it.
SIPOWICZ
Why don't you come to the Station
House so we can get the background
on this.
PAULA
I'm working.
SIPOWICZ
Well, now you're not working. Now
you're coming with us to the
Station House.
Simone holds a robe out for her to cover herself --
SIMONE
Why don't you get dressed Paula?
The tone of which seems to circumvent her resistance. As
Paula puts the robe on --
FADE OUT.
END ⊬
HOW 11 C I II 5 n C 5 C R I P I 15 C R fl F M D 9 1
M[m
Before we get into content, notice that a TV drama script looks just like a
theatrical screenplay. This might be news if you’ve written sitcoms because
half-hour comedies use a unique form. Most screenwriting software will
give you format options, so choose “standard,” “screenplay,” or what¬
ever term your system uses for writing movies. And, of course, you know
better than to use a divided page or anything called “video.”
Now, I said this show starts with a teaser which precedes ⊬, yet
you see no heading. Some series do write TEASER in the ⊤, then
they EADE OUT at the end of the teaser and start a new page headed ACT
ONE. Other shows start with ⊬ at the top of page one, whether
or not there’s a teaser. The only way to know what a particular show does
is check out one of their sample scripts. In any case. Acts Two, Three and
Eour will begin on new pages and be headed ACT TWO and so forth,
centered at the top.
⊨ SCENES
Look at #1 which simply establishes the Precinct building. Is that a ⊕.’
No! Remember, I told you a ⊕ is a dramatic ⊜, not a production
location. This kind of shot merely tells viewers where we are.
#2 opens the action with a personal detail that speaks volumes without
⊘. Think about what is revealed when a man tries on reading
glasses for the first time. What do you suppose is in the character’s mind?
Notice how he hides them the moment Simone enters. In Chapter One,
I spoke about the essential intimacy of television, and here it is: In his
private moment, Sipowicz is self-conscious about aging. Insecurity that
his eyesight is weakening gives viewers a window to his need to prove his
status in this episode.
The Simone character is played by a younger man — tall, handsome
Jimmy Smits. In comparison with Sipowicz — fat, balding and now
needing glasses — the rivalry is set in motion from their first appearance.
The script doesn’t spell out how each man looks — that’s not necessary in
a TV series where everyone working on the show knows who the actors
are. In fact, character tags, which are common in features, are slight, if
they’re included here at all. Still, everything you need emotionally is on the
page in this tiny moment.
9 B WRITING THE TV 0 R H M R SERIES / P fl M 0 D U G E R S
Notice also that ⊘ begins on page one. That’s normal for television,
though you might have read features (especially older ones) where descrip¬
tion, atmosphere, and action without speech occupy the first few pages.
Look at the kind of ⊘ on the first page, though. It seems like they’re
saying nothing except hello. That’s not really what’s going on, though,
is it? You want to aim for ⊘ that is both natural and withheld.
In other words, let viewers sense the meaning under the surface without
hitting it on the head, as much as you can.
You could analyze that the first ⊕ of this teaser ends at the bottom of
page one when Simone crosses off the name of Sipowicz’s former partner
and writes his own. It’s a gesture of power in a ⊜ that’s all about rela¬
tive power. But to understand the dramatic flow. I’d rather turn the page
because the same tension continues into the outer rooms.
From having “lost” the unspoken battle with Simone (which is only in
his own mind), Sipowicz barrels out to his boss, Lt. Fancy in #4, and
complains about the new guy. From a dramatic point of view, this page
could be interpreted as a whole ⊕ too because it has ⊖ between
characters, however subtle: Sipowicz wants to reclaim his power by
getting rid of Simone, but Fancy resists. At the end, when Fancy worsens
Sipowicz’ problem by ordering him to work with Simone and teach him,
Sipowicz reasserts his ⊙ that started on the first page, “I need glasses
and everything else.”
Though you could argue that two distinct scenes start this story. I’ll group
the first two and a half pages (slug lines 1 through 4) into a single ⊜
to help you visualize the storytelling. Let’s name this story “A,” because
it has the most resonance for the series as a whole (even though it actu¬
ally doesn’t occupy the largest proportion of pages in the full script). On
page 62 at the very end of the episode (not printed here) this ⊨
moment is paid off when Sipowicz allows Simone to see him put on the
new glasses, and he allows himself the vulnerability, “I got to wear glasses
now.” Their arc won’t really end for four years, but this episode accom¬
plishes a full step.
If you re filling in the grid, you would write “A” in the space next to the
“T” for teaser. The “log line” for story “A” might be something like:
“Sipowicz feels threatened when his new partner Simone arrives.” Other
wordings are also possible, of course. The point isn’t what you call a story
but how well you attach it to the drive of a continuing character.
HOW fl C L 0 5 5 I C SCRIPT IS CRAFTED 9 9
The teaser’s not over, though. Here comes the Lesniak story that I’ll call
“C.” Without the full episode, you’d have no way of knowing where
this one is going or how it measures against the rest of the script, so I’ll
just tell you. Detective Adrianne Lesniak is a continuing character whose
problems with her ex-boyfriend (Abruzzo) appeared in previous shows,
and this ⊜ is part of her ongoing struggle to be free of him. ⊮ really
does more in this episode: Thematically it leverages a story with a guest
cast which will begin in Act Two. That “C” story will require Lesniak to
deal with women who have been abused by a man. As those female char¬
acters struggle to find courage to defend themselves against their abuser,
Lesniak’s personal search gives the case a deeper meaning for the audi¬
ence.
The entire Lesniak/Abruzzo encounter runs almost three pages under
⊕ heading #5, but you’ll easily see it has several smaller components:
the initial ⊖ between Lesniak and Abruzzo, then the fight which also
involves Sipowicz and Simone, and finally the ⊡ with Lt. Fancy.
By the time this ⊕ is done, not only is Lesniak changed, but Simone
has also been introduced to the squad in a dynamic way, and through the
fight the balance between Simone and Sipowicz has budged a bit too.
If you’re keeping notes on the grid, you’d write “C” next to where you
wrote “A” for the teaser, because this ⊨ has two beats.
The only way you know this ⊕ ends the teaser is the transition “SMASH
CUT TO” (at the bottom of page 5 in the script) and “MAIN TITLES”
(at the top of page 6). ⊬ begins right after the main titles, though
this series doesn’t state that on the page.
Act I, ⊕ 1
#6 is a whole ⊕ even though it’s less than a page long. Read it again
and find the dramatic elements; Who is the ⊛? Who is the
⊣? What does the ⊛ want which is opposed by the
⊣? Where is the ⊝ of their ⊖? How does it resolve?
No, I’m not going to tell you the answers. This is good practice for tight
⊕ writing and to grasp how character arcs are progressed. You might
ask those same questions about every ⊕ you write. Notice also that no
⊕ exists merely to explore character. Simone and Sipowicz are on the
trail of a murder while this ⊜ happens.
1 0 0 W H I r I N E THE IV 0 R R M R SERIES / P R M 0 0 U 6 L R S
Clearly, this is what we’re calling the “A” story, so if you’re doing the grid,
put “A” in the first box in Act I.
⊕ 2
In #7 the “B” story begins, and it would be routine police work at a crime
⊕ except that we bring to it another level: the underlying jousting
between Sipowicz and Simone. Clearly, the ⊕ has three main compo¬
nents: first, the rising tension as they discover Matarano is “a mobbed-up
stiff;” second, a guest character who leads the detectives to the next ⊜
in their search. That construction might be flat, but the end of the ⊕
is the third “⊜” which spins the action in a new direction with the
surprising shouts for help from Miss Savino. (On the grid, put “B” in the
second square.)
⊕ 3
#8 is an additional ⊕ from the “B” story. You see, it’s not necessary
to checkerboard the order of these; it’s more important to follow the line
of audience interest. And that leads directly to the twist in this ⊕ that
raises unexpected questions about the crime. As in any mystery, the audi¬
ence doesn’t know which clues to value and which are red herrings, and
neither do our characters — that’s part of the fun of the genre. (“B” goes
in the third square.)
⊕ 4
Why bother with an establishing shot of the Precinct in #9? Think of a
reason before I tell you. Okay, here are a few: It helps re-orient viewers
to “home base” after several beats in the field; it signals the ⊤ of
a new ⊟; and it creates an ellipsis — that is, an impression time
has passed so that characters who appeared in one ⊜ are separated
from their reappearance in a next ⊜ when they couldn’t have actually
traveled that quickly.
Why does the episode return to the “C” story in #10? It’s not as if this
⊜ that runs less than a minute advances the ⊗ in an important way,
so why bother? I recommend you take a shot at questions like that because
they stretch your writing muscles, even though I can’t hear your responses.
HOW H C L 0 n I C SCRIPT IS CRAFTED
A few answers: It keeps that “C” story alive in viewers’ minds, especially
since it won’t return until Act Two; it raises tension about Lesniak’s state
and invests us in her emotional challenge; and it delivers some information
that was left unresolved in the teaser. On this last point, no ⊕ should
be written for exposition only. If you need to communicate facts, set them
within an emotional context, as happens here. (Write “C” in square 4
on the grid.)
⊕ 5
Notice that the next ⊕ is set apart merely by an Angle within the same
time and place and doesn’t have a new slug line such as “INT. SQUAD
ROOM - DAY.” You couldn’t use INT. SQUAD ROOM anyway because
it belonged to ⊕ 4, so “Angle” — which is a literary device, and
doesn’t intend to tell the director which angle to shoot — flags that this is
a new story ⊜.
#11 lasts almost three pages — a little long when the material has no
external action. What’s actually going on? Well, first you need to know
that Sylvia Costas, the Assistant D.A. is Sipowicz’ girlfriend (and in later
episodes becomes his wife). Costas is beautiful, sophisticated, intelligent
— a step up for Andy Sipowicz. She loves him, though, and tries to help,
even if he’s too proud to accept advice. Now picture the smooth, attrac¬
tive, newly arrived Bobby Simone in the same room. With those dynamics
in mind, re-read this ⊕.
Look for Sipowicz’ motive, his vain efforts to knock down Simone, Costas’
curiosity about Simone, and how the implied threat of her interest results
in lines that don’t seem to be about much at all while we can almost feel
Sipowicz boiling underneath. Obviously, this is the “A” story, so “A” goes
in square 5.
⊕ 6
#12 and #13 together make up ⊕ six, which returns to the “B” story
by introducing Paula, a guest star who may have the secret to the murder.
Using resistance to the cops as they enter the showroom, and Paula’s reluc¬
tance to reveal what she knows, the ⊕ builds ⊖.
I D 2 W B I T I N 0 THE TV D R fi M fl 5 E R I E S / P R M 0 D U G E R 5
This takes us to the end of ⊬, which ought to be a cliffhanger.
The anticipation of more unexpected turns in the Matarano case might
generate the kind of dramatic tension to keep an audience through the
commercial break. However, this is not such a tremendous act ender,
though the “B” story has certainly been advanced. I think what holds
viewers to this episode is the arrival of Bobby Simone and curiosity how
he’ll affect the whole series.
After you write “B” in the box for ⊕ six, you’ll notice the number of
scenes in ⊬ doesn’t go to seven. That doesn’t matter. And if you
add the two scenes in the teaser to these six, that’s actually eight scenes
within the first 14 minutes or so. In the original script. ⊬ was 16
pages, including the teaser, and set three stories in motion, so it certainly
accomplished a lot of storytelling.
im lECDND Excerpt
Four years later, the “long ⊚” of the many-faceted relationship
between Sipowicz and Simone comes to a close with Simone’s death.
“Hearts and Souls” (story by Steven Bochco & David Milch & Bill Clark;
teleplay by Nicholas Wootton) stretched the boundaries of episodic televi¬
sion as it followed Simone through a kaleidoscope of flashbacks to the
afterlife, delivering an emotional and spiritual dimension rarely seen on
screen.
In the Teaser and ⊬ we’ll observe the interplay of comedy and tragedy
and a gradual build of suspense before the show takes its surprising turns
in Acts Two, Three and Four. Read it before moving on to the analysis.
NYPD Blue
"Hearts and Souls"
FADE IN;
EXT. HOSPITAL - MORNING 1
To establish --
INT. HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM - MORNING 2
Present are SIPOWICZ, KIRKENDALL and MARTINEZ. Given the
configuration of the room and its proximity to the door
exiting the Cardiac Care Unit, Martinez has the prime vantage
point for viewing Simone's departure and waving greeting,
this to Sipowicz' simmering chagrin. After a ⊜ --
SIPOWICZ
You're gonna monopolize that
position?
MARTINEZ
(defensive)
I didn't see anything yet.
KIRKENDALL
(to Sipowicz)
He wants to wave to Bobby.
SIPOWICZ
That's why we're all here Martinez.
MARTINEZ
Andy, I ain't moving.
KIRKENDALL
I brought a harness so I could
dangle from the ceiling.
SIPOWICZ
Yeah, that's funny.
Medavoy's just arrived in a mood of happy anticipation.
MEDAVOY
I take it the grand departure
hasn't taken place yet?
KIRKENDALL
Hey Greg.
WRITING TV D H fl M fl SERIES / P R M DOGGERS
2 .
Sipowicz looks away, disgruntled. Medavoy surveys the room.
MEDAVOY
You're in the garden spot, huh
James? Greet Bobby without exposing
him to any bugs.
SIPOWICZ
Yeah, he came 'two in the morning
with a pup tent.
Martinez snorts at Sipowicz. Medavoy remains sanguine --
MEDAVOY
Plenty of good spots.
Sipowicz paces. Off which --
CUT TO:
3 INT. SIMONE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING 3
SIMONE is sitting in a chair. His pants and shoes are on.
Emaciated from his illness, Simone swims in the shirt RUSSELL
is carefully buttoning. Russell, in whom we identify
excitement layered over physical and nervous exhaustion,
studies her husband with a hovering solicitude.
SIMONE
Are you done?
RUSSELL
Am I hurting you?
SIMONE
No no.
RUSSELL
One more.
(completing her task)
You've got like a little drainage,
I wanted to go slow buttoning over
the bandage.
SIMONE
Now I'm going to lean back a
second.
RUSSELL
You set the schedule Bobby.
He tries to manage a smile of reassurance.
HOW fl C I R 5 5 I C SCRIPT 15 C fl fl f I E 0 I 0 5
3 .
SIMONE
Not used to all this action.
She forces a smile in return, watches as he privately tries
to measure his feeling of growing malaise. After a ⊜ --
RUSSELL
Dr. Swan said you might get a
little drainage from your stitches.
SIMONE
Was my bandage wet?
RUSSELL
No, it was a little yellow
drainage.
Simone nods. After a ⊜ --
RUSSELL (CONT'D)
I wonder where Dr. Swan is.
SIMONE
We got time.
RUSSELL
It's just he was supposed to
discharge you twenty minutes ago,
Simone closes his eyes. Though Russell has tried to sound as
if she's dealing with a minor irritation, in fact she's
growingly, irrationally afraid that if they don't leave soon
they're not going to be able to leave at all.
CUT TO:
4 INT. HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM - MORNING 4
Sipowicz has conceived an excuse to improve his position --
SIPOWICZ
I'm going to make a phone call.
KIRKENDALL
You want the cellphone?
SIPOWICZ
(shakes his head no)
Personal, I better use the
payphone.
He heads out. The others watch.
WRITING TV 0 R R M R SERIES / P R M DOGGERS
4 .
MEDAVOY
(admiring amusement)
You know what Andy's doing, James?
He's improving his position.
MARTINEZ
(nods)
He could lose five years from his
pension, making that lame an
excuse.
Sipowicz has reached the phones. DR. SWAN exits the
elevators, moves past. Sipowicz, feigning dismay at
discovering he lacks the proper change, keeps his head down,
re-examining this phenomenon as he moves toward the Nurses
Station.
CUT TO:
5 INT. SIMONE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING 5
Simone and Russell react as Dr. Swan enters, utters his
standard discharge line.
DR. SWAN
Understand you want to get out of
here this morning.
SIMONE
Absolutely.
RUSSELL
Bobby has a little drainage on his
bandage.
DR. SWAN
(nods, not overly
concerned)
Some of your stitches may be slow
in absorbing.
SIMONE
Diane was saying.
Russell emulates Dr. Swan's tone of unconcern.
RUSSELL
He just has a little yellow
drainage.
DR. SWAN
Let's have a look.
HOW H C L 0 5 S I C SCRIPT IS C R fl F T E 0 I 0 7
5 .
Dr. Swan keeps his tone casual, though in his lexicon "yellow
drainage" translates "big trouble." He begins unbuttoning
Simone's shirt. Simone fills this silence --
SIMONE
Diane's talking about hanging her
shingle out 'her time off The Job.
DR. SWAN
Good, I'm looking for an associate.
Dr. Swan's undone Simone's shirt, does his best to dissemble
his reaction on noting a spreading stain on Simone's bandage
made by yellow pus seeping from his incision.
DR. SWAN (CONT'D)
You do have some drainage.
RUSSELL
From his stitches dissolving?
Dr. Swan keeps his ⊞ neutral -- as if discussing an
interesting chess problem --
DR. SWAN
I'm not sure. I'm going to use a
little Q-tip, check Bobby's
incision.
The camera positions itself consistent with ⊤ a
discrete revelation of Simone's incision as Dr Swan removes
the bandage. Off which --
CUT TO:
6 INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE SIMONE'S ROOM - MORNING 6
Sipowicz has inched forward to the Nurses Station, glances
back one last time to see if he's under scrutiny from his
colleagues, then takes the last few steps necessary to gain a
view of Simone's room, reacting with sickened shock on seeing
Russell and Dr. Swan helping Simone back into his bed.
The eyes of the two partners meet. Sipowicz puts up his hand
to Simone, waves weakly; Simone nods acknowledgement as
Sipowicz moves back to the Waiting Area.
CUT TO:
W R I I I N 6 IV 0 R n M H SERIES / P fl M D D U E L R S
6 .
7 INT. HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM - MORNING 7
Medavoy spots Sipowicz coming out the closed door of the
C.C.U.
MEDAVOY
(almost chortles)
To Andy, rule-obedience is a
totally foreign concept. Went up
the hall to wave.
Martinez won't concede his own position's been supplanted.
MARTINEZ
What I'm here for, watch Bobby
enter that elevator.
Sipowicz re-enters.
MEDAVOY
You went to wave to Bobby, didn't
you Andy?
SIPOWICZ
They're putting him back in bed.
Kirkendall reacts with silent dismay.
MARTINEZ
Is that some temporary precaution?
SIPOWICZ
He don't look good.
MEDAVOY
He went through major surgery ten
days ago Andy.
Kirkendall's seen Russell approaching.
KIRICENDALL
Hi Diane.
RUSSELL
We have to stay awhile more.
MEDAVOY
(emptily)
Yeah huh?
HOW fl C L II 5 S I C SCRIPT IS C R fl f T E 0
.
7
RUSSELL
Bobby has some wound infection they
have to identify. He needs a C.A.T.
scan and then they're going to
debride him.
MARTINEZ
Andy said he was lying back down.
Russell nods --
RUSSELL
You should go on to work. I'll call
if there's any news.
KIRKENDALL
Sure, call when you get a chance.
The Detectives put on their best face when Russell leaves.
Before she's out the door Russell gives a passing half-smile
to Sipowicz. A ⊜. Sipowicz seethes --
SIPOWICZ
(to Martinez)
Want to come back or you want to
keep your spot?
They're all devastated, troop out. Off which --
SMASH CUT TO:
MAIN TITLES
8 EXT. PRECINCT HOUSE - MORNING 8
To establish --
9 INT. SQUAD ROOM - MORNING 9
Sipowicz is the first of the Detectives to return from the
hospital. He's solemn, dour; moving as though weighted;
FANCY'S going over materials with DOLORES at her desk; it's
clear they know of Simone's turn or the worse. As Sipowicz
hangs up his coat --
FANCY
Your ex-wife's here Andy, she's in
the lavatory.
SIPOWICZ
Is she all right?
W R I I I N 6 TV 0 R n M n SERIES / P fl M 0 0 U E L R S
8 .
FANCY
(noncommittal)
Yeah, she seems all right.
Sipowicz nods; even this unexpected information can't refocus
his thoughts.
FANCY (CONT'D)
Did you see him at all?
SIPOWICZ
(nods)
I saw him from out in the hallway
for just a couple seconds.
FANCY
Did he look like he was getting
sick again?
SIPOWICZ
I don't know.
Sipowicz sees ICATIE SIPOWICZ, his ex-wife and mother of Andy
Jr., As she exits into the hallway. She's skittish, clutches
her handbag.
KA.TIE
Hi Andy.
Sipowicz moves to join her in the hallway.
SIPOWICZ
Are you all right Katie?
KATIE
Yes, I just had to use the girls'
room.
SIPOWICZ
I mean what're you doing here?
KATIE
Is this a bad time? I can talk to
you some other time.
At this point Sipowicz is pretty sure he's smelling booze on
Katie's breath.
SIPOWICZ
C'mon, let's talk in the Coffee
Room.
HOW fl C L H 5 5 I C SCRIPT IS CRAFTED
9 .
Because sTie's been drinlcing, Sipowicz decides to take her the
back way to the Coffee Room. As he begins to shepherd her in
this direction we see Medavoy and I^artinez ascending the
stairs.
10 INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS 10
Follow Sipowicz and Katie --
KATIE
It's not the worst, right Andy? The
worst already happened.
Sipowicz' embarrassment at her condition distracts him from
what she's saying.
SIPOWICZ
What're you talking about?
KATIE
I'm in a problem, but Andy J.
dying's the worst that can ever
happen.
SIPOWICZ
Katie when in hell did you start
drinking?
KATIE
What?
SIPOWICZ
C'mon in here.
As they enter.
11 INT. COFFEE ROOiyi - CONTINUOUS 11
He brings her to a chair.
KATIE
I had one small drink. It's coming
to the City and seeing you. I had
one small drink.
He's poured her some coffee, puts it in front of her, in the
next instant reacts with gruff sheepishness --
SIPOWICZ
You still take milk?
W R I I I N E TV D R R M fl SERIES / P fl M D D U E I R S
10 .
KATIE
Please.
Sipowicz provides this, watches her.
KATIE (CONT'D)
(barely audible)
I'm in some trouble, Andy. I was
arrested in Seacaucus for a D.U.I.
SIPOWICZ
On your way in to see me?
She shakes her head no.
SIPOWICZ (CONT'D)
So the small drink today wasn't
your first small drink.
She starts to cry, holds her hand to her mouth --
KATIE
Please don't bully me.
SIPOWICZ
All right. All right.
Katie tries to compose herself --
KATIE
I'd had a glass of wine, one glass
and the Cop says I rolled a stop
which I did not. The person in
front of me rolled the stop.
SIPOWICZ
Did you blow impaired? Did you take
a breath test?
KATIE
(shakes her head no)
I always heard you say never agree
to tests.
SIPOWICZ
And you told this Jersey Cop your
ex-husband's on The Job?
KATIE
It didn't do any good.
HOW fl C I R 5 5 I C SCRIPT IS C R fl F T E 0 I I 3
.
11
SIPOWICZ
And Andy J. you told him about --
that he'd been on The Job in
Hackensack?
KATIE
I couldn't bring myself to say
about Andy.
SIPOWICZ
Give me this Cop's name. When did
this happen?
KATIE
Nine weeks ago.
SIPOWICZ
(shocked)
Nine weeks? When the hell's your
trial date Katie?
KATIE
This afternoon.
He stares at her in angry bafflement.
KATIE (CONT'D)
(apologetic)
I was so embarrassed to come to
you.
SIPOWICZ
Were you too embarrassed to go to a
lawyer?
KATIE
I thought maybe you could help me
keep it from that.
He slams his hand on the table --
SIPOWICZ
How the hell was I going to help
you Katie if you didn't tell me
about it?
All his old frustration at her timidity and fear and
defeatedness wash over him. She winces as she always did when
he would shout or slam his hand down.
KATIE
Oh Andy.
W R I I I N 6 IV 0 R H M R SERIES / P R M D 0 U G I R S
12 .
He looks at her cower; his hand goes to his forehead. He
looks away --
SIPOWICZ
You got the paperwork?
Gaze averted, she produces the summons and trial notice from
her purse. He looks at these a ⊜, then --
SIPOWICZ (CONT'D)
Drink your coffee and let me see
what I can do.
ICATIE
Am I too embarrassing to you to
stay here?
SIPOWICZ
Katie, drink your coffee.
Off Katie, as Sipowicz exits --
12 INT. SQUAD ROOM - CONTINUOUS 12
Medavoy's with Martinez at Martinez' desk. They barely note
Sipowicz' exit from the Coffee Room, his brusque movement
toward his desk. After a ⊜ --
MEDAVOY
I'll tell you James, I never had
the wind so completely taken from
my sails.
MARTINEZ
I got as much enthusiasm doing a
day's work as stepping on a nail.
Sipowicz peers at Katie's paperwork, picks up the telephone.
Meanwhile ⊯ WOLFF, 28, in sport coat and slacks, has
entered the Squad. He's carrying a manila file folder.
WOLFF
(to Dolores)
My name's ⊯ Wolff. I need to
speak with a Detective.
DOLORES
Just a minute.
Dolores has checked the Catching Board, heads for Medavoy at
his desk.
HOW fl C L H S 5 I C SCRIPT IS C R R F I E D
13 .
DOLORES (CONT'D)
Detective Sipowicz is catching but
he's with his ex-wife --
MEDAVOY
What's the guy's problem?
DOLORES
He didn't say.
MEDAVOY
I mean did it seem like an urgent
problem?
Dolores, as distressed as the others by the turn in Simone's
condition, allows herself some small exasperation.
DOLORES
He didn't say. He's got like a
bruise above his eye, I don't know
if that's part of it or not.
MEDAVOY
Yeah, all right.
Martinez gives his partner a commiserating look as Medavoy
gathers his energy, starts toward the Catching Area.
13 NEW ANGLE - SIPOWICZ 13
Into receiver --
SIPOWICZ
My name's Sipowicz, I'm a Detective
in the Fifteenth Squad in Manhattan
-- you wrote my ex-wife up for a
rolling stop last September 8th ...
Medavoy's reached the Catching Area --
MEDAVOY
(to Wolff)
Can I help you?
WOLFF
I was assaulted.
MEDAVOY
Uh-huh.
Wolff points to his eye --
W R I T I N 6 IV D R fl M fl SERIES / P R M D 0 U 6 L R S
14 .
WOLFF
My name's ⊯ Wolff. The son of
one of my tenants gave this to me,
and I've had just about enough.
MEDAVOY
You want to press charges.
WOLFF
Yes I want to press charges.
MEDAVOY
For that half-a-shiner there,
WOLFF
Yes .
Medavoy abandons the forlorn hope Wolff may dematerialize --
MEDAVOY
Okay, c'mon.
As Medavoy shepherds Wolff toward his desk, hold on Sipowicz.
SIPOWICZ
(into receiver,
incredulous)
She don't tell you till you're in
the Station House? You'd already
turned the work in?
(listens, nods)
No, I can . . .1 don't doubt what
you're saying.
(confiding)
I'll tell you, we had a son on The
Job in New Jersey got murdered --
if she was impaired wouldn't
surprise me if her drinking's
ensued connected with that ...
(rubbing his neck)
Anyways, are you going to have a
problem if I try reaching out to
the Prosecutor?
(⊜)
I appreciate it. All right, thanks
a lot.
Sipowicz disconnects, punches in Costas' number --
SIPOWICZ (CONT'D)
(abrupt)
You know anyone in the D.A.'s
Office in Seacaucus?
(MORE)
HOW fl CLASSIC SCRIPT IS C R fl F T E 0 I 7
15 .
SIPOWICZ(cont'd)
(listens; angrily)
I told you what I know on that --
they kept him in and he's got a
complication.
(listens)
'Cause my ex-wife took a collar
driving drunk, Sylvia -- all right?
-- and she don't let me know till
three hours before her trial, and
in between being criticized by you
for my tone I'd like to try keeping
her out of a jackpot. Now do you
know any prosecutors in Seacaucus?
(⊜)
All right. Thanks.
He hangs up. During this conversation, through the atrium
window, we've seen Katie, having exited the back door of the
Coffee Room, make her way to the landing through the rear and
side hallways, descend the stairs.
Now Sipowicz rises, starts toward the Coffee Room; as he
transits, hold on Medavoy and ⊯ Wolff --
MEDAVOY
Before we make this a case, Mr.
Wolff, have you considered how
filing charges against her son's
gonna affect your tenant's
willingness to pay rent?
WOLFF
I'm in my last year at Stern, which
is the N.Y.U. Business School --
MEDAVOY
(who gives a shit?)
I see.
WOLFF
I'm managing this building while my
uncle decides if he likes living in
Florida; I could care less how
bringing charges against this
steroid case affects his mother's
paying rent.
Having found the Coffee Room empty, Sipowicz returns to the
squad --
SIPOWICZ
Son of a bitch!
WRITING TV 0 R n M n SERIES / P fl M DOGGERS
16 .
This declaration is made in proximity to Wolff; Sipowicz
moves into Fancy's Office --
14 INT. FANCY'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS 14
He's behind his desk. Sipowicz enters.
SIPOWICZ
I need lost time.
FANCY
All right.
SIPOWICZ
I need to go find my rummy ex-wife.
Sipowicz starts for the door, stops --
SIPOWICZ (CONT'D)
I need the cellular.
Fancy nods; Sipowicz collects the cellular, exits --
15 INT. SQUAD ROOM - CONTINUOUS
He heads for the door, stops at Dolores' desk.
SIPOWICZ
I got the cellular.
DOLORES
Okay.
SIPOWICZ
If my wife calls, or there's news
on the other front.
Dolores nods. Sipowicz exits.
16 NEW ANGLE - MEDAVOY AND WOLFF
Medavoy's begun filling out a 61; Wolff corrects Medavoy's
spelling of the tenant's name --
WOLFF
U, not 0 on his name, and two I's --
Builinger.
Medavoy looks up, considers Wolff, shakes his head and
laughs.
HOW 0 CLASSIC SCRIPT IS C R fl f T E D
17 .
WOLFF (CONT'D)
What's so funny?
MEDAVOY
Nothing, Mr. Wolff.
WOLFF
I guess you and I don't share the
same sense of humor.
MEDAVOY
I guess I don't really care about
that, okay. Let's just you and me
fill out your complaint how his guy
only hit you the one time while you
dunned his mother for her rent.
Off which --
FADE OUT.
END ⊬
1 2 0 W R I I I N E TV D R H M R SERIES / P R M D 0 U 6 E fl S
Mms
Let’s start by naming the stories. “A” is about Simone dying; “B” is
Sipowicz and his ex-wife Katie; “C” is Medavoy and Wolff. I’ve used
simple tags, and that’s fine for identification, but when you plan your own
script, I suggest you create real dramatic log lines. That way, you’ll be
sure your stories have ⊖ - that they’re actually stories, not just situ¬
ations. Using the example episode, you might phrase log lines something
like this:
A: As Simone’s death becomes imminent, he fights until he ultimately
makes peace with his memories. Within this arena, Russell, Sipowicz and
others have story arcs from denial and anger to acceptance.
B: When Sipowicz is challenged by Katie’s drinking and desperation, he
must overcome his anger, guilt and his own alcoholic history to be able to
help her.
C: Medavoy struggles to stay professional while an arrogant man’s
complaints escalate.
Notice in each case I’ve stated the stories as issues for main cast, not the
guest cast, though the guests (Katie and Wolff) are bringing the inciting
incidents.
COLD ⊨
This teaser is entirely “A” story (slug lines #1 through #7), though it’s
comprised of several beats. In planning an important ⊨ like this, I
would begin by making a mini-outline, planning each ⊜ to build suspense.
See if you can make your own list of the turning points m these first pages
that end with “SMASH CUT TO,” which signals the end of the teaser.
Did you get these beats?
• The Detectives spar with each other in anticipation;
• The first reveal: Russell discovers the drainage;
• Sipowicz schemes to find out what’s happening;
• Tension mounts when Dr. Swan confirms the problem;
• Sipowicz discovers it; we see his personal stakes;
HOW fl CLASSIC SCRIPT IS C R fl f T E 0
• Sipowicz and Russell reveal the crisis to the detectives, who leave, appre¬
hensive.
Those six beats ramp quickly into the drama using a basic storytelling
progression: Anticipation — Expectation — Surprise. That is, viewers are
led to anticipate an event, which holds people through the set-up. As the
action advances, we come to expect certain outcomes. Instead, the story
turns (twists), generating a sense of surprise which then begins a new
⊟ of suspense. You can readily create tension on screen that way,
as this teaser demonstrates so well.
Also, consider the use of humor in this heavy episode. Here’s another age-
old practice: increase the impact of tragedy by setting it against a comic
foil. Shakespeare played his fools and foolishness — sometimes for belly
laughs from the audience of his day - in his most tragic plays. Here, the
episode begins with a moment so light it’s almost silly — jockeying for
position at a window. Then, as the drama moves into ⊬, an outra¬
geous fool appears in the person of Mr. Wolff. With all that in mind, let’s
get into the ⊫.
⊬
The “B” story about Sipowicz and Katie (#8 to #12) begins with several
beats that are emotionally challenging to Sipowicz in the midst of the
already-heartbreaking news his partner isn’t getting better. I just spoke
about the value of comic relief, yet here’s more stress. So why do you
think the writers chose to come out of the title ⊟ and open Act
One with this?
Here are some possibilities: While the Simone illness is suspenseful, it
does not involve action for our continuing cast — except, of course,
Simone and Russell, though even for them, the conflicts are internal, and
their decisions result mainly from reflection. In dealing with Katie’s very
tangible distress, followed by her wandering off, Sipowicz is able to vent
the claustrophobic hospital.
Katie’s story also provides an opportunity for Sipowicz to externalize his
feelings about Simone (including his anger), without which he’d be stuck
brooding. Throughout NYPD Blue, a prominent quality of Sipowicz as a
character is his determination not to yield to helplessness even in the face
of the dregs of society, or, in this case, death. Often, Sipowicz fails, but
I 2 2 WRITING TV 0 R H M H T E R I E T / P R M 0 D U G E R 5
here, Katie’s needs provide a way for him to be the rescuer when he cannot
rescue Simone.
See if you can discover other reasons for choosing this “B” story in this
episode, and why it’s an effective ⊨ for ⊬.
Throughout this Act, take note of the fluid blend of scenes within the
Squad Room. In the first sample script, the scenes tended to be easily
separated. Here, you’ll find multiple scenes in the same time and place,
choreographed directorially. For example, at the end of #9, while Sipowicz
takes Katie into the hallway, we see Medavoy and Martinez ascending the
stairs. The point is that we don’t lose the persistence of the other char¬
acters and dilemmas. The action directs the camera to “Follow” them,
moving our attention with this ⊕, but we’re also aware of material
which is concurrent in the room we’ve left.
Similarly, the “C” story with Wolff commences as Sipowicz goes towards
his desk in #12. In fact, notice that the “B” story is literally interspersed
with the “C” story in #13. Towards the end of #13, you’ll see multiple
visual layers: While Medavoy and Wolff move to Medavoy’s desk, they pass
Sipowicz at his desk, and while Sipowicz speaks, we see Katie sneaking
away in the background, followed by Sipowicz crossing the room, leaving
us holding on Medavoy and Wolff. It’s a complex, but elegant way to
create depth (multiple levels) on screen.
This layering style — ⊕ on ⊕ in the same time and place — is
found in many other sophisticated series too, so watch for it. In writing
your own script, though, I suggest you separate the stories when you
plan them initially, and weave them together only when you’re ready to
go from outline to teleplay. (You can read more about this technique in
Chapter Four.)
M] You iHOyiD lO NlXl
Read and analyze all the good television scripts you can find from many
different series. Sure, you’ve watched TV all your life, but observing how
episodes are crafted on the page prepares you to work as a writer.
If you’d like to see how these two example shows turned out, they can be
read and watched at the Library of the Writers Guild and at the Museum
of Television and Radio. Both institutions have award-winning shows
HOW H C L B M I C SCRIPT IS C R fl f I E 0 I 2 3
available to the public. (You’ll find those and other resources in the
Appendix.)
Once you have a solid sense how the best dramas are constructed, you’re
ready for the steps to write your own, which I’ll show you in the next
chapter.
Many (though not all) drama series use parallel non-sequential stories
denoted by letters A, B, C, and so forth. Three stories per episode are
typical, though some shows have more. Each story is usually “driven by”
one character in the main cast.
Scenes tend to run two minutes or less. Six or seven scenes comprise an
act in a classic network drama. With four acts, that adds to around 28
scenes total in an hour episode. However, certain shows that have quick
⊘-intensive scenes have more beats per act; shows with action
sequences might have fewer. Shows with five or six acts may have as few
as 20 scenes total.
A “teaser” is a prologue to an episode and may incite one or more of the
stories.
By analyzing a quality show using the “grid,” you can see its structure at
a glance.
The best television shows demonstrate the principles of dramatic art that
apply to all quality screenwriting.
Mm]
ON WRIIING PR0C[DyRfl[5
MDD[[ HND HNII-M0D[1
Mim Mihhi
WITH Gym JPEflKERj Inn de /T/;
M\m
HND R05ENDERG OE
CSl is “the most successful franchise in television
history,” according to Les Moonves, president of
CBS, the network that broadcasts the shows. With
the seminal series flourishing season after season
and two chart-topping progeny, CSI: Miami and
CSl: New York, not to mention off-network re¬
runs, the franchise is inescapable, not that the
tens of millions of viewers are trying to escape.
When all the other “procedural” series are added,
Ann this genre, broadly defined, occupies around half
Donahue
of all hour drama series on network television.
Why?
Ann Donahue, co-creator and show-runner of CShMiami said it’s because
in a way, procedurals are simple. People want stories resolved, to see the
solutions that aren’t really available in life, to be assured at the end of each
episode the bad guy gets caught.
Not that CSI: Miami is simple — the investigations have multiple twists,
the science is intricate, and the forensic visuals are startling. But from the
viewpoint of dramatic construction and the intention of the series, the
format is predictable. That brings us to a general definition of “proce¬
durals”: shows that crack their cases each episode, where the emphasis
is on the puzzle more than arcs for the continuing cast. Investigation
— crime-solving — is key in CSl and other police/detective procedurals.
124
5 M U 1 B H I ON W R I T I N B P R D C E D U R fl I 5 I 2 5
though House is an example of a medical procedural that also uses a
succession of clues to reveal the culprit (in that case, a disease).
Procedurals have been around since the era when only three networks
existed and they all required closure on every show every week. In the
1990s, Law and Order infused the genre with serious issues, “ripped from
the headlines.” But CSI raised the entertainment ante when it appeared
in 2000. Anthony Zuiker, a writer who had no television experience at
the time, had done tremendous research, even ridden with crime ⊕
investigators in Las Vegas to create the pilot. The network brought in
experienced producer-writer Carol Mendelsohn, who in turn brought in
Ann Donahue, who had won an Emmy for Picket Fences and had worked
at Steven J. Cannell Television at the same time Mendelsohn did.
From the ⊤, CSI was a complicated procedural with science that
none of them knew and inserts showing incised flesh pierced by bullets
(later dubbed “meat shots”). They had five technical advisors and had to
figure out how to write the exposition and hide it.
Mendelsohn told Written By magazine in 2002 that their fidelity to fact
continued as the series grew. The three executive producers searched
newspapers for accounts of murders that inspired plots, and boned up
on forensics. They went on to create the CSI style using super close-ups
of microscopic evidence and unusual visual and sound techniques that
dramatized changes of perspective, passage of time, or mood. Mendelsohn
said, “The minutiae are the real essence of CSI. The interesting stuff is the
real facts.”
The challenge in writing procedurals is how to get beyond the technical
to the heart. Donahue says: “The mistake we all make, including me and
all of our writers on the first draft, is we do load it up with clues and we
go to ⊗. Here’s the thing: no one cares about ⊗. No one ever has. But
story — story is not the same thing. You look around and it’s the story of
the guy who doesn’t want to lose or who wants to go the distance. That’s
something people care about. Usually, that’s the A story. The B story of
that is his love — does he get the girl or not?
“With our shows, the A story is investigation, but the B story is the
emotional line. How does one of our characters on CSI feel about the
case and what is it doing to them personally; or one family member of the
victim is involved and how can we help them through this tough time?
We have to keep switching back and forth between the investigative A
1 2 G WRITING IRE IV D R R M fl SERIES / P R M D D U G E fl S
Story and the emotional B story. If you have ⊬ and it’s nothing
but a clue takes you to this character, and that clue takes you to the next
character, and our characters are only confronting them with evidence,
you’re failing.
“We’re working on a story right now about a babysitter and there’s a
murder in the house where she’s babysitting. We get prints of a man in
the neighborhood. He says ‘I went in there to steal something.’ Yeah,
well, why were you hanging around? Why was your nose pressed up
against the window? ‘Well, I was dating the babysitter, that’s why.’ Well,
suddenly, it’s not just a guy who was stealing something, but he’s telling us
something about our suspect who we heretofore thought was so innocent.
Now we find out she’s covering up the murder for her boyfriend. We find
out later, they’re covering up for each other. The point is you’re not just
interviewing the neighbor who says, yeah I robbed; I was a bad person.
It’s what we call upping the stakes. Someone who presented herself as
innocent is having a guy over for sex. Later, that whole story becomes a
‘Mrs. Robinson’ story because the babysitter’s mother was also sleeping
with the boyfriend.
“Every person your characters investigate — and it has to be based on
forensic evidence — doesn’t have to be guilty but they have to give you
something else so the story builds, builds, builds. The other rule is you
have to have a warm body by the end of ⊬, within the first 17
pages. You have to have a real suspect that informs the audience about
the story they’re watching.
“A show’s job is to entertain. It’s ⊗-driven, and the writer should
commit, tell the story and let nothing get in the way — not educating the
audience or political correctness or ‘arias.’ The hero must have desire. He
must be thwarted. There must be complications.
“The difference the CSI franchise brought in was our production values.
Each show, if it’s done right, is always going to be visually intriguing and
ultimately satisfying. The filmmaking is changing, but filmmaking will
never replace storytelling. What I find heartening is what’s always going
to matter is the story and the execution of the story. When you get to the
end, a good ⊥ is surprising and yet inevitable. That’s what people are
waiting for.
“So every story, whether it’s a medical show or a cop show or a soap
opera is a mystery. A secret is going to be revealed. When are other people
SPOTLIGHT ON WRITING P R 0 C E D 0 R R L S 1 2 7
going to find it out? How do we see a certain person get a comeup¬
pance? And I don’t think that’s ever going to change. We want it the way
we always wanted it to he. We want the ⊥ we couldn’t get in our
formative years.”
After speaking with Ann Donahue I wanted to put the procedurals giant
and CSI: Miami in perspective, so I had a conversation with Melissa
Rosenberg, Co-Executive Producer of Dexter. That show is also set
in Miami, also uses forensics (the character Dexter is a blood-spatter
specialist), and also has a murder each week. But Dexter, which debuted
in late 2006 on Showtime, is different in every other way.
Rosenberg had written and produced series that included character-driven
dramas and dramedies, and, unlike Donahue who brought well-honed
experience in procedurals to CSI, Rosenberg had never done one. “So
it was interesting in Dexter that there was a forensic element,” she said.
“Generally, I do not watch procedurals, so I’ve stayed away from them.”
PD: But the CSIs are wildly popular.
MR: All of the procedurals on every network are wildly popular.
PD: Why do you think they are?
W R I ! I N B THE TV D fl fl M H SERIES P R M D 0 II E E R S
MR: I think people love a mystery and they love
to see it unfold.
PD: Dexter may be a mystery ⊮ isn’t really
a procedural, is it? The episodes don’t have
closure, and it has a strong serial element.
MR: During our first season it changed. When
we all came on, we thought it’s a cop show. True,
the main character is a serial killer, but there’s a
procedural element. We had a choppy ⊤
Melissa
Rosenberg because we were figuring out what the show is.
Finally we figured out it’s about this fascinating character.
PD: How did that change from procedural to character drama dawn on
the staff?
MR: After we kept banging our heads on the wall trying to figure out the
stories. We realized it’s not about solving mysteries. It was about exploring
this character. That’s the big difference. There was an overall mystery of
the season: thirteen episodes of who’s the ice truck killer, and that’s an
ongoing mystery. But the week in week out shows weren’t like that. There
are too many shows on television like CSI or a zillion others.
We don’t do procedural stories. If we’re getting into one, we say, oh, wait
a minute. We have to start over because we’re not doing a Dexter story,
and we have to find our way back to character. My nightmare show' to
work on would be House. That’s such intricate procedural writing and
research. It’s a complicated, long medical mystery.
PD: Comparing Dexter, House also has a strong central character, unlike
CSI which has an ensemble cast. How is Dexter different?
MR: House solves a disease of the week, so every episode can stand alone.
They’ve kept an ongoing story throughout the season, ⊮’s very much
background. For us, whatever the crime of the week is, well, we don’t
really have crimes of the week. There’s Dexter committing the crime of the
week. He follows some criminal, so there’s that procedural element but
we don’t have a formula where at the ⊤ and end of every episode
we do the same thing. One of Showtime’s requests of us was to not have
a formula. It was funny coming out of network television, used to being
on shows and trying to find their formula, then to go on to a show where
you don’t have to do that.
SPOTLIGHT OH WRITING P R 0 C E 0 0 R 0 L S I 2 9
PD: That’s very different from
most network shows. Ann OUSE
Donahue felt strongly about the
structure; by 17 minutes in, at the
. _ . •-
end of ⊬, there had to be, SEASON
ONE^
as she called it, “a warm body,” VOLUME
THREE ■■
somebody who was a likely suspect
^ “ 1
they’d go find. Every week it has
to be that way, and at the end of
the show you’d come to the end
of it; there isn’t a series-long arc,
though viewers do care about the
main characters and they do have
relationships with each other.
MR: Our very first conversa¬
tions are the season arc. We track
where we want to go. Then we
start breaking it down until we
get to the individual episode. Showtime said the objective was really not
to be network television. They wanted serialized episodes.
PD: How has the pressure differed at Showtime compared to networks?
MR: Less. So much less. Cable is the place to be — twelve episodes and
out, compared to 22 or even 26 that a lot of network shows have, and
the pressure of slamming it out there every week. My first Dexter script I
finished a month before prep. There was time to think about storytelling.
I never had that on any show; it’s just wonderful.
Another difference was in the notes. My last show was on CBS and when
we had a notes call there would be maybe fifteen people on that confer¬
ence call. I wasn’t even sure who all of them were. But at Showtime: three
people, our two executive producers and the writer. You could actually
have a conversation; you could discuss a story whereas everything at the
network was by committee.
PD: Dexter is basically a vigilante murderer? Did the ethics come up in
discussion?
MR: He’s our lead, so you have to get people invested in him. We try to
take people along with him, rooting for Dexter, and then reveal what a
monster he is. We hope the audience goes ooh, I wasn’t ready for that.
WRITING THE TV D fl fl M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P H M D 0 G 6 L H 5
The other show that does that extraordinarily well is The Sopranos. You
get deeper and deeper into Tony and then he does something horrible,
and you remember, oh yeah, this guy’s a sociopath. As writers, we bring
people in, seduce them with the character and then shine the mirror on
themselves, because we all have these very disturbing aspects that none of
us wants to look at. That’s what storytelling is all about.
PD: I wonder if this kind of show could have been on the air in another
era. On CSI, for example, the good guys always get the bad guy, and he is
a really bad guy. And that’s satisfying to a large part of the audience. Now
this is the flip side: Dexter, the killer, invites you to see the world from
another point of view. I wonder about this being on the air at this time.
MR: True, Dexter is of its time. I don’t think this would have been on
the air around 9/11 either because we needed a couple of years to believe
things were black and white. ⊮’s not that simple.
HfllRING VDIC[$
(The following impressionistic essay appeared in The Journal of the
Writers Guild of America.)
“...Trumpet at his lips, he listened to the notes bounce from brick rooftop to
rooftop until, finally, he knew the rhythm of the echoes. He’d based his music
on those intervals. People called him a genius, but he knew what they could
not understand — that he had merely listened.”
That’s from a short story I wrote in college, when I believed music exists
before it is played, that a statue is inside the marble block and the sculptor
cuts away whatever is not the statue, and that for writers ... now we come
to it ... characters exist beyond what is written, with larger lives than fit
on film. They’ll talk to you. You merely have to listen.
You catch a character the way a surfer catches a wave, waiting in still
water until it wells up from a source as invisible as it is powerful.
Whaddya want? That was a kid talking.
Okay, okay we know what it’s really like. In some scripts, catching a char¬
acter is more like catching a bug mid-flight on your windshield.
Working writers have to hear other voices. “You want it good or you want
it Friday?” Yeah, yeah, I know, good and Friday ... and it better be Friday.
131
I 3 2 WRITING THE TV D fl fl M fl SERIES / P R M D 0 y 6 L R S
The ⊞ of my first movie business boss plays in a perpetual loop.
Greenly arrived from the East Coast, I had landed a studio ⊧
job. I brought the boss a script by a New York friend and naively blazoned
it with the kiss of death. I called it beautiful. I can hear the boss now, over
his thick cigar, “Don’t tell me that shit!” He’s making boxing moves like
Norman Mailer. “Man to man! Action! Action! Get it? Mano a mano!”
He’s snapping his fingers in my face. “Is it going to make 100 million? Is
it? Is it? That’s what you tell me. You come in here and prove it’s going to
make 100 million.” A sucker dare. No one can prove any movie will make
a dime. But I didn’t know.
He didn’t snap his fingers in your face. You’re over the top, and that char¬
acter is running wild. Stop him!
Okay, okay. He didn’t snap. But the rest is true. I soon left the studio job
for a writing career. The denigrated New York author went on to win a
Pulitzer. And the executive retired richer than both of us.
What’s that got to do with the voices?
They don’t come easy. Sometimes you have to snare them.
My field is television drama. I’ve had the chance to learn from a few great
writer-producers who provoked their staffs to what drives a real person,
not just what gets a laugh or twists the ⊗. Where else do you find a
22-hour ⊚ of evolving characters? Immediacy. Intimacy. Power.
Like a hard-charging river. But we all know what’s along the banks: some
cesspool shows.
When I was a beginner, I went for an assignment on one. It wasn’t exactly
a cesspool, just stagnant. The series characters were moved like toys to fit
a franchise. While the producer described contrivances he wanted me to
write, the characters in my head screamed, “Can we have the bathroom
pass?” With enough craft, you can do an assignment like that. Fake it.
Kind of like a worn-out love affair, and as deadening.
Then, in the midst of the script, a character surprised me with a line that
could only have come from her. Gotcha! The sound of her ⊞ was like
having her address. And once I knew how to find her, she forced the char¬
acters who answered her to be as real. And they made their world whole.
Once you’ve had it good, you don’t want it any other way.
Right, like you do that every day.
WHITING YOUR OWN E P IT D D E I 3 3
No. Staring at the computer screen with a belly full of caffeine and terror,
I know what it’s like to have nothing on a character besides every thing.
Facts. Stuff that has to happen at the act break. Wind whistling on deserted
shores. But I’ve learned something: craft can be a tugboat that pulls you
out to where you can hear the voices.
So, you gonna get to Joan of Arc, or what?
Not Joan. But there is a connection. The high when you’re flying with a
⊕ rolling out like it’s alive — that euphoria is worth putting up with
the detractors and distractions. It’s like an all-nighter when you can’t get
enough of each other, you and the characters, and no one wants to sleep
again ever, and it’s already all there... just listen.
a- jf-
I decided to begin this chapter about preparing you to write your own
script by quoting that article so we don’t lose sight of the source — where
writing really comes from — as we focus on the nuts and bolts of craft.
ME
FINDING YOUR
Whether you’re setting out to write a spec script or you’re on a staff vying
for an episode assignment, you’ll need to choose subjects which (1) fit the
medium, (2) complement the specific show, (3) contain events that will
play on screen, and (4) express your unique experience or fresh insights.
Yes, you can do all four.
Ideas that will work on television have the scale and intimacy I discussed
in Chapter One. So look for character-based subjects that benefit from
scenes with ⊘.
To fit an existing show, you need to have watched that series so much
you can hear the characters’ voices in your head. And you’ll have figured
out the kinds of springboards the show uses to impel stories, and its pace
and style.
As you know, externalized actions are basic to any screenwriting. Just as in a
feature screenplay, you plan your structure around things that happen. That
sounds simplistic, and I wouldn’t bring it up but I’ve seen otherwise-sophis¬
ticated students become so involved with the psychology of TV characters
they forget that character is expressed in a series of events on screen.
1 3 4 W R I n N G THE IV 0 R H M fl S E R I E 5 / P R M D D U 6 L R S
Finally, what do you bring to the party? Of course, you’ll consider ongoing
relationships among the cast; those kinds of continuing stories are called
“on series,” and are fine to write, but be warned: the large turns in a
season’s arc are planned by the show runners. It would be naive to spec an
episode where the Gilmore girls get married, or an episode of Monk where
the character is cured of his obsessive-compulsive disorder, or a Dead
Like Me where Georgia proves to her family that she’s still alive. Don’t do
episodes that change the central characters or the course of the show.
Instead, think about incidents you know (or know of), and then play them
out in the world of the show. If that’s scary, you’re not alone. Even Aaron
Sorkin, creator of The West Wing, Sports Night, and movies including
A Few Good Men, sometimes has difficulty ⊤. He confided at
a Writers Guild Foundation seminar in 2004: “It’s bad enough trying
to have ideas. When you really start you’re trying to get one. Every day
you’re flipping through instantly dismissible ideas, so my head is like the
worst movie you’ve ever seen. Horrible, horrible ideas that go nowhere.
It’s like being bludgeoned with your own inadequacies.”
One way to break the logjam is through research. Some writers main¬
tain files of clippings from quirky magazines and small town newspapers;
others hit the Internet or books. For example, if you were planning a CSI,
you’d be smart to investigate scientific clues that can be visualized under a
microscope. If you’re researching for Carnivdle, dig up a sub-culture in the
1930s which inhabits a town the carnies would visit. For a Law & Order,
you might come across a topical issue on an op-ed page and angle it with
an unexpected interpretation of the law. Now, none of that means you
should rely on gimmicks. Clever bits of information do not make stories.
But they might turn your own creative wheels.
And here’s how they turn: Make your subject live and breathe through
the experiences of your continuing cast. That’s key. The most common
error is to tell the story through the guest cast. I’m going to repeat that in
other words because it’s so important: Don’t write a story that can be told
without your continuing cast. If your story could work as a movie without
your show, then you haven’t made it work for your show.
Here’s an example of wrong and right ways to approach your story. Let’s
make believe you’re planning an episode for a series about Jane and Sally,
who are detectives, and you’ve come upon an item about a woman cat
burglar who scales tall buildings to steal Manolo Blanik shoes.
WRITING Y D U R OWN EPISODE I 3 5
A wrong log line would go like this: Portia Pedi, a former rock climbing
champion, attempts to scale the Trump Tower at night to acquire the
world’s most expensive stilettos, but her clever plan is foiled when she’s
caught by Jane and Sally.
A better approach to an episode log line would be more like this: Jane
confronts her fear of heights on a ledge of the Trump Tower at night
when she must rescue Sally who has been taken hostage by a woman cat
burglar, and together Jane and Sally foil the plan to steal the world’s most
expensive stilettos.
See the difference? In the wrong version, the guest cast drives the action of
the show and leaves the main cast as mere witnesses or pawns of the guest.
In the second version, the challenge, jeopardy, and viewpoint belong to the
main cast, whose decisions create the turning points.
Once you’ve identified a subject for your spec episode, write it as a log
line. (Log lines are discussed in Chapter Two, in case you want to refer
back.) That’s easier said than done because in order to state your story
in a sentence, you need to know the whole dramatic arc. I understand
that’s difficult, but I advise you not to skip ahead. Once you’re clear
about your story’s ⊖ you’ll be secure you really do have a ⊗, not
only a premise.
If you’re working on an A-story series, you can move on as soon as you
have a single log line, though you’ll need to make sure your one story has
sufficient substance for around 28 scenes. If you’re doing a show with
three or more stories, you’ll need separate log lines for the B, C, or other
stories, and you do have to figure out each one. With that done, you’re
now ready to get to work.
BRinXING YOUR ilORIh
“Breaking a story” means identifying the main turning points. On network
TV it involves structuring the episode so strong cliffhangers occur at the
act breaks and the story engine runs all the way from the inciting incident
in the Teaser (or the ⊤ of ⊬) to the ⊡ in Act Four.
It’s not a process to take lightly, and even experienced writing staffs wrestle
with stories for hours, even days. In addition to placing the act breaks,
apply these two basic dramatic tests:
1 3 G WRITING THE TV 0 R fl M fl SERIES / P H M DOGGERS
(1) Credibility: What would real, normal people do in the situation? Are
you forcing the ⊗ twists by contriving actions that stretch believ-
ability, or do the actions and responses of the characters follow
naturally from the jeopardy or ⊖? What’s honest here?
(2) Rooting interest: Do you care whether the characters succeed? Are the
stakes clear enough and high enough to make an audience root for
your ⊛? Will people be emotionally involved?
Once you’ve settled on your essential stories, you can sneak up on the
structure by figuring out some tent-poles. The easiest may be your ⊨
because the event that propels the episode is often what attracted you.
But even with the most obvious story, you’ll have options: Do you want
to open with the guest cast who will present the challenge, or with an
internal problem for one of your main cast, or with a goal for one of your
main cast which becomes subverted once the guest cast arrives?
Aaron Sorkin told the Writers Guild Foundation seminar how he starts: “I
have an idea for the first page and a half for The West Wing — which, by
the way, no joke, if I know what the first page and a half is of something,
I don’t want to say I’m half way home, but I can see the house.”
Whatever it takes for you to see the house — the ⊞ of a character,
picturing a place, coming upon a crime ⊕, getting a case, or confronting
a conflicted relationship — close your eyes and make that come to life.
Then you’ll be centered in your show’s world, which makes it easier to be
real about what happens next.
The second easiest tent-pole is probably the ⊥. When you chose this
subject the final outcome might have been inherent. The body is found at
the ⊤ and the real killer is the one who reported it, or the nice
witness, or the secret lover, or whatever. Your challenge is how to arrive at
that ⊥ through the main character’s process of discovery or growth,
not mainly to solve a crime or cure a disease or manage to survive. So even
when you know the ⊥, you have to get to it, and therein lies the craft
of storytelling.
The third tent-pole occurs at the end of Act Three. It’s the “worst case.”
Remember, in drama, the worst event is whatever opposes the protago¬
nist’s goal (or the triumph of the ⊣), not necessarily bad stuff that
happens. For example, in the hypothetical show about detectives Jane,
Sally, and Portia the shoe burglar, the worst case might be that Jane, who
is afraid of heights, is forced to venture out on a ledge to rescue Sally. The
WRITING Y D y R OWN EPISODE I 3 7
jeopardy here is not only to Sally, who has been taken hostage, but that
Jane has to confront her darkest demons in making herself climb out, and
is shaking so badly because of her fears she’s going to blow her one chance
at the rescue. That’s the cliffhanger before the Act Three break.
Here’s another example; A doctor fears his wife doesn’t love him anymore
and is struggling hard to win her back. During the episode, he has a
patient who needs surgery. At the same time it’s raining outside. From a
dramatic viewpoint, the worst case is that the wife rejects him, not that
the patient dies or the rain turns into a flood, though those circumstances
could certainly complicate the character’s quest.
When you know the Act Three “worst case” you’ve nearly solved your
basic structure because you can begin figuring backwards to how your
characters arrived at this crisis. Even if you can fill in no more than one or
two beats prior to the act break, you’ll begin to feel the progression.
Now you want to pin down the cliffhangers at the ends of ⊬ and Act
Two. Developing the ⊣ might give you some clues. Often (but, of
course, not always) the ⊪ is where the opposition that began in Act
One gains strength. You know that at the end of Act Three this opposition
will appear to have won, so see if you can come up with two surprises. You
might discover that the ⊛ underestimated the ⊣ in the
⊫ but is forced to fight back after a reveal at the end of ⊬. In
Act Two, maybe the ⊣ is not exactly what was expected, or your
characters follow a red herring, or they even believe they’ve won, when the
⊣ (or problem) re-asserts itself at the Act Two break.
Using our make-believe Jane and Sally show, you might introduce the
challenge that someone is stealing shoes in ⊬ and reveal at the Act
One break that the culprit is a woman cat burglar who scales skyscrapers
... and that brave Jane is paralyzed by this case because she’s afraid of
heights. So in Act Two Sally has to go it alone as Portia becomes more
and more bold, endangering many shoes. In fact, Jane’s inability to work
on the case leads to Sally being taken hostage at the Act Two break. As
the jeopardy deepens through Act Three, it becomes urgent that only Jane
can save Sally, and that she has to go out on that ledge or all is lost at the
Act Three break. Act Four is pure ⊡, and would emerge naturally
from the “worst case.”
Of course, that’s a silly story, but I’m trying to give you a broad sense of
how to find the big bones of your structure. Your writing is more subtle.
I 3 R W fl I I I N 0 r « E IV 0 R B M II SERIES / P R M D 0 U E L R S
more complex, and doesn’t rely on cartoon-like action, right? Still, these
“tent-poles” can help you plan:
IHE GRID
Yep, here it is again, doing an encore since the last chapter. This time,
though, you’re not noting the various stories of someone else’s script.
Now, you can use the grid for your own rough ideas by filling in the major
beats I’ve just described — ⊨, ⊥, worst case. ⊬ break,
and Act Two break.
One caveat: You wouldn’t bring this to a meeting, and I’ve never seen
anyone use it on a show. The grid is something I’ve created for myself
because it helps me see the entire hour at a glance in the earliest stages
of figuring it out. If this doesn’t help you, don’t worry about it. The grid
is just a planning tool because everybody has to start somewhere, and a
blank page might be daunting. Make copies and play with it if you’d like.
Vary it for five or six acts if that fits your show.
Chart 4.1 Basic Four-Act Grid
WRITING r 0 U R OWN EPISODE 1 3 9
IH[ Outline
The first step of writing involves listing the scenes in your script. This
process has several names in addition to “!@#$%'^&’'''()+,” which is what
you might want to call it when wrestling down the structure. Actual
names include “outline,” “step outline,” “⊜ outline,” “⊜ sheet,”
and “treatment,” but they all amount to figuring out the order of events
in your teleplay.
“Treatment” has a specific definition, usually observed only in the breach,
and it’s not a word you’ll hear much in television. Technically, a treat¬
ment would be a half to two-thirds the length of a finished script written
in prose (not screenplay form) that includes every ⊕ in the order it
occurs, as well as tone, style, and descriptions, and is virtually the entire
script lacking only ⊘. Believe me, nobody writes treatments like
that. If someone asks you for a “treatment” of your story what they really
mean is a few pages that summarize it. Even for full-length features. I’ve
heard the term “treatment” apply to a three-page pitch. Don’t bother with
it unless you’re asked.
A “⊜ sheet,” as used by some producers, is mid way between a treat¬
ment and an outline. It parses your show into acts and describes the big
story elements, though it doesn’t spell out specific scenes. So we’re talking
about seeing the dramatic turns, not a diagram for writing.
“⊜ outline” is sometimes used interchangeably with “outline” because
it’s a list of what’s actually written in the teleplay, and usually those “beats”
are scenes. On one show where I worked, the producers asked writers for
a very full outline (like a treatment with numbers), but when the staff met,
they would reduce the ⊚ in the outline to a more skeletal list they
called a ⊜ outline so the construction could be analyzed.
For example, an outline ⊕ might say something like “While Jane clings
to the ledge, frozen in fear, desperately trying to convince Portia to release
Sally, Portia taunts Jane to climb out to get her.” The simplified ⊜ might
say “Jane on ledge — Portia: “Come get her.” It’s an internal cue used for
planning though it might not make sense to an outside reader.
This brings us to your outline. As you know from Chapter Two, an outline
is a step in the professional ⊧ process. It’s a contracted stage of
writing that generates “story by” credit and pays almost as much as a whole
script. If you have a contract with “cut-offs,” you might get no further if the
W R I n N G THE TV D R H M fl SERIES / P R M D 0 U G L H S
outline doesn’t work; but a successful outline means your option for a first
draft will be “picked up” (you’ll go ahead to write the script).
What if no producer or payments are involved, though? Un-fun though
outlines may be, you really should write one, even if you’re working alone
on your spec. I advise: Don’t travel without a road map — hour episodes
are too complex, especially if you’re juggling multiple storylines. If you’re
on your own, though, hand-written notes might be enough, and initially
you could get away with being vague, noting only what you need to accom¬
plish for the characters within a ⊕. Personally, I’ve found that the time
it takes to type a complete outline and weigh each ⊜ saves me oodles of
time writing because I’m not worrying about being lost or redundant, and
it saves me from writing scenes I’ll have to delete because they don’t move
the story ahead. To me, grief-avoidance is worth the effort.
HOW TO WRITE YOUR OUTLINE
Nobody launches into an outline at number one and trucks on to number
28 in a straight line. Instead, start with the tent-poles I mentioned and
fill in the grid until it’s complete enough to write the scenes as an outline.
Or you could begin with index cards, as many writers do. Cards are
wonderful because they’re not threatening. If you don’t like an idea, toss
it out. If your order doesn’t make sense, re-arrange the cards. And you can
“down-load” your thoughts in any order, which lets you reach creatively
to scenes you’d enjoy whether or not they fit next in the script.
One technique is to choose different color cards for each story. If you do
all the beats of the yellow story, then the green one, then the blue, and
assemble them, you’ll see at a glance whether you’ve lost your green story
in the ⊪, and whether the blue is paying off in Act Four or if it
petered out in Act Three (which might be okay, but at least you’ll have a
chance to ask the question).
Remember, in a multiple-story show, the stories are probably uneven. So,
if you’ll have around 28 scenes in an hour episode, and your “A” story
predominates, it might have as many as 12 to 16 beats; the “B” could
have eight to 12 beats or so, and the “C” has whatever is left, as few as
three or four beats, up to maybe eight. Of course, if you’re dealing with
vignette writing, with seven or eight parallel stories, you might have a
whole little tale in a single ⊜, though that’s not typical of most dramas.
Understand, I’m not suggesting exact numbers of scenes that should go
with any story. I’m illustrating the kind of planning you might do.
WRITING YOUR OWN T P I 5 0 D E I 4 I
Let’s say you start with your “A” story. Make cards for every ⊕ that
tells your story. Count them. If you’ve got 40 cards you have a problem.
Maybe the cards are fragments rather than whole scenes. See if you can
condense many of them together until you have 10 to 20 cards. Or maybe
your story doesn’t fit in an episode. What portion of this story is the essen¬
tial ⊖ that could work within an hour? Or maybe you’re rambling,
including backstory or side incidents that aren’t part of the forward motion.
Whatever doctoring you need to do, get that A story down to size.
What if your beats are too few? You can trouble-shoot by asking the
opposite questions. Maybe you have combined a few scenes on one card.
See if you can separate them into two-minute blocks, and then see if this
story becomes the right size. Or maybe you don’t have enough material
for a major story. If it truly doesn’t have enough meat, then you might
look for a larger story to “marry” with it. Or maybe it does have fine
potential but you haven’t yet spelled out the moments that would unveil it
on screen. Again, see if doctoring will get you to a useable scale.
After you do that with one story, go to the next and the next. Some scenes
from different stories may play at the same time and place, so you’ll actu¬
ally get more mileage out of your screen time than you’d have if each story
was a free-standing little movie. And once you weave them, you’ll discover
interesting contrasts, where telling one story enables you to ellipse time
in another, or a ⊕ from “A” resonates thematically with “B” in an
interesting way. Putting the stories together can lead to discoveries, so you
want to be flexible here.
After your individual stories are filled out, and you’ve ball-parked which
beats occur at the act breaks, read the cards through with the feeling of
watching on screen. Don’t kid yourself. If you’re bored, the audience
will be too. But they’re only index cards — change anything you want
at this stage.
Once your basic structure is in hand, write it out. Here is a cheat-sheet for
how a standard outline looks:
WRITING THE TV 0 R fl M B S E R I E 5 / P fl M D 0 I) 6 L fl S
"Title of Episode"
TEASER
Summarize the teaser in a few lines, usually with more
description or tone than the beats that follow. In shows
where the teaser is a single ⊕ it's one paragraph.
-- However, complex ensemble series may begin several
stories in the teaser and break them into separate blocks.
-- Teasers with two or three (or more) distinct scenes
may have two or three (or more) segments like this.
⊬
1. EXT. LOCATION - TIME
The beats of the outline are numbered, ⊤ with #1 in
each act, and headed by slug lines, as in a script. Keep
them short like "log lines" for the scenes.
2. INT. LOCATION - TIME
Each step is a ⊕ with dramatic structure. Every ⊕
has a ⊛ (a character who drives the ⊕), a
goal, and an ⊣ or opposition to the goal, even in
scenes one minute long, even where ⊖ is subtle.
3. INT. SAME LOCATION - LATER
These are dramatic scenes, not production scenes. In other
words, beats are determined by the content, not merely by
time or location. If in the same location you have a new
⊖ it is a new outline ⊜.
However, in a show where multiple stories converge at a
single moment, and you use a fragment of a different arc, it
may be easier to follow if you note it after the ⊕.
4. EXT./INT. A FEW LOCATIONS - DAY TO NIGHT
A single dramatic ⊕ may cover several places, begin¬
ning when characters meet, continuing with them in and out
of a car, concluding elsewhere. In this case use an inclu¬
sive slug line, as above, though you wouldn't do it in a
script.
5. INT. SQUAD ROOM - DAY
An example: Jane arrives saying a mantra about her fear of
heights just as Sally accepts a dare from Pedi to try on the
stolen shoes if they meet her on the roof right now.
w H R 1 ' 5 5 0 SPECIAL fl 0 0 0 I TV 0 fl R M R SERIES? I 4 3
6. 7. See if you can fit one Act per page. The hour outline
would then run around four pages total. However, every
series has its own pace and style.
If you use that outline form to specify locations and times for each ⊕,
it will help you be real about what’s actually on screen. Here’s an example
of an incorrect ⊜ in place of #5 on the sample:
INT. SQUAD ROOM - DAY
Jane says the mantra to herself while driving to work and stop¬
ping to feed the pigeons. While petting one, then releasing
it, she thinks about how scared she would be to fly like the
pigeons. Meanwhile Sally gets a call from Pedi, who is trying
on shoes on the roof, inviting Sally and Jane to join her
up there, where we can see her dancing in high heels. Sally
worries whether Jane would be able to go up there too. When
Jane enters, saying her mantra, Sally tells her etc....
That’s awful, right? That example is like one of those children’s games
where kids try to pick out all the things that don’t belong in a picture.
Before I tell you the answers, find the mistakes, yourself. ... Okay, ready?
• Engage each ⊕ as close as possible to its ⊖ or problem. Here,
Jane meanders while screen time ticks away before we get to the purpose
of this ⊜.
• Animal wrangling is expensive and consumes production time, so it’s an
example of the kind of material TV series spend for only when essential
to the drama.
• If you’re inside the squad room, you can’t see Jane outdoors. All that
would be exterior (EXT.) action. In an outline, you can use an inclusive
slug line, but if you really mean to place the dramatic ⊖ in the
squad room, omit the driving.
• Jane’s fear of flying is not visible on screen. Don’t put it in the outline
if you can’t put it in the script. If you do intend to put it in the script,
though, indicate how you’ll show it.
• A similar problem recurs with visualizing Pedi on the roof. Sure, there
should be a place in the script to establish Pedi. If this is it, be clear in
the outline — and give it all it’s due as a meaningful location — or omit
it from this ⊕ and allow Pedi’s dare to be heard on the phone or
communicated in Sally’s ⊘.
Once you delineate your usable beats, you can easily turn your index
cards into an outline a producer (or you) could track. Or maybe not
1 4 4 WRITING THE TV 0 R R M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P R M D D G G L R 5
SO easily. When you move from hand-written notes to a typed structure
you’ll probably realize some facts slipped by: You’ve indicated a ⊕ is
in daytime. Oh, it can’t be day because the scenes before and after are at
night. ⊮ doesn’t make sense for the characters to be at work at night.
Okay, should you move this ⊕ elsewhere.’ Or can the other scenes
occur in the day? If so, how does that change the tension? What day of
the story is this anyway?
That’s just a hint at the reality-check awaiting you, but better to resolve it
in the outline than after you’ve written 60 pages!
ALTERNATE OUTLINE FORMS
Not every show, or every writer, does outlines so detailed or specific. Some
prefer to plan the characters’ arcs but leave the actions (where, when and
how the characters play out their conflicts) to whoever writes the scripts.
I once wrote for A Year in the Life, which began as a beautiful “limited
series” (which is like a miniseries) that followed a Seattle family in the
aftermath of the mother’s death. The short run proved so successful the
family drama was picked up for a full season. The show-runners. Josh
Brand and John Falsey (who also created Northern Exposure and I’ll Fly
Away), had planned complete character arcs for the season, and since this
was very much a serial, all episodes were like puzzle pieces that had to fit
a larger picture.
The first outline Brand and Falsey handed me was unlike anything I’d
encountered at the time. It followed the psychological and emotional
progress in the hour but suggested only a little that could be termed “⊗”
or even incidents. Yet, it was an important point in the season. In the
“A” story, the family patriarch, widowed for less than a year, proposes
marriage to an independent woman who has a fulfilling life as a doctor
and no need to marry. The “B” story dealt with the teenage granddaughter
who is arrested for driving without a license. In the “C,” the newly married
daughter-in-law tries to get a first job; and she and her husband have a
fight. So it’s not as if the hour was devoid of contents, but the outline I was
presented had hardly any guidance about how to relay these stories.
For instance, one ⊜ said something like: “Coming into the kitchen after
arguing with his wife, the son wants to confide in his father, but can’t. The
father’s proposal has just been turned down, and he’d like to tell his son,
but he can’t confide either. During the ⊕ neither man ever says what is
on his mind, though they comfort each other.” That was all.
WRITING YOUR D W N EPISODE 1 4 5
I loved the challenge, but before I could write that ⊕ I had to create a
mini-outline for myself. In this case, the ⊕ was set in the family kitchen
late at night, each man surprised to find the other there, not wanting to
show vulnerability. I kept the ⊘ entirely “off the nose” (indirect),
each man emphasizing his strength for the other, while they comforted
themselves with food. No chase scenes or car crashes or anything larger
than two people at a table, but the delicate moment did have tension
because the audience knew what was being withheld. I tell you, this is the
most difficult kind of ⊕ to write because you have no external jeop¬
ardy to lean on; the ⊖ comes entirely from character, and much of
the opposition is internal.
Because it was so difficult, I made notes for the turning points within this
tiny ⊕ — the optimal place to enter, when to take the milk from the
fridge, exactly when the son would ask what happened with the proposal,
the moment he’d let his dad off the hook by mentioning football tickets,
the spot where the father would sigh and pointedly reveal nothing, and so
forth. It helped me to have that map even though no one else saw it.
Many writers use outlines somewhere between the specific, detailed “cheat
sheet” and the loose emotional agenda from A Year in the Life. On ER,
for example, the outlines don’t tend to have numbers but each step is
a fully realized ⊕ with dramatic structure. That’s especially impres¬
sive when you consider how short the scenes on ER may be. Here is a
fragment of an actual ER outline of the Emmy-winning episode “Love’s
Labor Lost” written by Lance Gentile. I’m grateful to Warner Brothers,
Executive Producer John Wells, and writer-producer Lance Gentile for
permission to print it here.
Episode 18
TEASER 7:00 AM
-- ROSS and GREENE toss a football outside the ambulance
bay. An ambulance races past, a familiar face in the window.
"Was that Benton?" Ross goes long for a pass as a car
careens down the street and a bloody gang member is tossed
out into the street.
-- Ross, Greene and HATHAWAY race the gang member down the
trauma hallway, passing HALEH, who takes us into Trauma One,
where she finds a distraught BENTON. The old lady with the
broken hip is MAE BENTON, his mother.
1 4 G WRITING T R [ TV 0 R fl M fl 5 E R I E S / P R M D D U G I R T
-- In Trauma Two, CARTER and JARVIK join the heroic resus¬
citation of the trauma victim. Carter witnesses Greene at
the top of his game, impressed.
-- Mae is shy about her son seeing her naked, exposed and
in pain. Haleh reassures him that she'll give her special
attention. Benton wants to write out the orders as Haleh has
been insisting. She lightens up on him: "Don't worry - I'll
take care of it. Go see if Greene needs any help."
-- Benton enters Trauma One as Greene is prepping for a
thoracotomy. As Benton pulls on a trauma gown to do the
procedure, Greene says he doesn't need any help — go be with
your mother.
-- When orthopedic resident JANET BLAIR arrives to admit Mae,
Benton insists that the chief of orthopedics be called in.
-- Greene and Hathaway escort an OR team out of Trauma Two.
As Hathaway heads home from the night shift, she passes DR.
GREGORY NELSON, chief of orthopedics, steaming into Trauma
One.
-- Nelson, none too happy about being pulled from his
department meeting by Benton's persistent calls, does agree
to do the case. Benton tries to get him to say that he,
not the resident, will actually do the case. Nelson flatly
refuses, and he and Blair take her off to OR. When Benton
tries to get on the elevator. Nelson flatly forbids him to
go anywhere near the OR.
All that occurs in the first several minutes, so you can see how fast televi¬
sion storytelling needs to move, how packed it is with dramatic stakes,
and why you’d need to be at the top of your craft to write a show like ER.
The episode you’re writing might not be as intense, but you can learn a
lot from ER’s skillful blending of the arcs and the way this outline blasts
each story out of the ⊨ like cannonballs.
For example, in the very first ⊜, a peaceful “status quo” is immediately
broken by the inception of the “A” story when Benton arrives in an ambu¬
lance, but rapidly diverts attention to the urgent “B” story when the gang
member is tossed onto the street. Talk about grabbing attention!
Re-read your own outline and read it to friends until it’s as powerful and
clear as you can make it.
WRITING YOUR OWN E P I $ 0 0 E 1 4 7
Jdnny'5 [in
One of my former MFA students, Sonny Calderon, told me he taped
reminders around his computer, mostly tips that came from my response
to someone’s work in class. He thought these four might be useful as you
begin your first draft.
• Every ⊜ is an action. A character “realizing” something is not a ⊕.
Each ⊕ involves a character who wants something but faces resis¬
tance.
• The ⊣ must be as strong and motivated as the ⊛.
The more equal the sides, the more suspense. See the world from your
⊣’s viewpoint also.
• Aim at the turning point where the ⊛ must make a difficult
choice, a moral equation which is nearly balanced.
• Anchor your story with the Worst Case Scenario three-fourths through.
This is where the ⊛ seems to fail and must overcome his
internal problem to deal with the opposition.
M
Yoyn Drhfi
How close should you stay to your outline? That depends how close your
outline is to what works on screen. If you’re on an assignment from a show,
you will have vetted your outline with the head writer (and maybe the
whole staff), so you’re sent off to your first draft with an implied contract
to deliver what they expect. Sometimes an outline is considered “locked,”
which means you’re committed to the beats on the page and you’d better
stick to them. In hasty or ultra-low budget productions, some companies
have been known to start prepping (pre-production) based on the outline.
(That may mean scouting locations and rough scheduling, for example.)
But what if you come upon something you want to fix? Say, in the outline,
a ⊜ exists to reveal a character’s secret, but while writing, you realize the
secret is already apparent from a previous ⊕, so you need to cut the extra
⊜. Or you might want to make a larger change: The guest cast pops out,
speaking in a way that’s more interesting than appeared in the outline, and the
“⊞” of the character demands that certain scenes be angled differently.
If you’re doing a spec, absolutely go for the revisions if you’re sure of
them. You don’t get points for sticking doggedly to an outline that doesn’t
I 4 R W R I I I N B THE TV D R H M fl SERIES / P R M 0 0 U B L R S
make sense! But if this script is for a producer, it’s better not to make large
changes without asking. I made that mistake once. I was doing a script for
a show and had thoroughly worked out my outline with the show-runner.
But as I approached Act Four, I was inspired by what I thought was a
more clever ⊡, so I went ahead and wrote it.
Well, one day after I delivered the script, the producer was on the phone
complaining I hadn’t given him the ⊥ we’d discussed. Surprised by
the emotional tenor of his reaction, I listened silently as he went on about
this single point before I appreciated what he was really saying. The orig¬
inal ⊥ had been his idea. Whether or not my version was better, his
feelings were hurt — not just because I hadn’t used his suggestion, but
because he felt I’d disregarded him. This was about respect. Aha, I made a
mental note: In the future, pick up the phone and ask. If you get the boss
on board, he’ll probably say okay to write what you think is best.
Now, how do you actually do the script? You’ve written screenplays before
or you wouldn’t have reached this point, and this one is not so different.
Once you get past the structural requirements of the hour format, and
you’ve told your stories via the show’s continuing cast, the next special
factor is speed. Episodes are usually due two weeks after the outline is
approved, and that feels fast if you’re used to mulling over a feature for
months. Of course, if you’re speculating, no one will know how long you
took to write, but a concentrated schedule is a habit you’ll need if you’re
going to work in television.
I’ll show you how easy it is to deliver in 14 days. Let’s say you have an
outline with 28 beats (four acts with around seven scenes in each). I like
to follow my outline exactly, so I write just two scenes each day. Voila! 14
X 2 = 28. When I’m writing at home (not on staff), I begin each morning
reading over what I wrote the day before, fine-tuning it. Then I take a
breath and get ready for the first ⊕ of the day. I approach it as if these
next pages are the single most important piece of writing I’ll ever do. I
want to bring to this screen moment the richest experience, full of subtext
and nuance, while delivering the action in the tightest way I can. I might
imagine the whole ⊕ before writing a word, or take a walk and jot
down ideas, or close my eyes and wait for the characters’ voices. Whatever
it takes. Then I write two or three pages. And stop.
I find that pushing on diminishes quality, and I want to come to the next
⊕ fresh. So I’ll take a break. Lunch, errands, gym, calls — I try to take
my mind off it, though when I’m most relaxed, not even trying. I’ll have
WRITING YOUR OWN E P I 5 0 D E I 4 9
ideas for a way into the next ⊕ or a perspective on one I wrote. Much
later in the day, in the afternoon or night, I’ll re-read the morning’s ⊕
and revise it. Then I repeat the process of finding, forming, and writing the
second ⊕ of the day. And stop.
I’ve found that by the time I reach the end of the script, my first draft has
already been edited because I refine my work each day. Of course, not
everyone works like this, nor should they. I have a writer friend who starts
work at 4:00 A.M. and smashes through as many pages as she can before
she runs out of steam, hardly looking back. She tells me she’d never let
anyone see that “mess” that rambles, repeats, and wanders into tangents.
She regards it as raw material which she edits away after she arrives at the
end. You could think of it as the difference between painting and carving
a sculpture: The painter pays attention to each brush stroke, adding one
after another until the picture is formed. The sculptor begins with a hunk
of material, and cuts away “everything that isn’t the statue,” to para¬
phrase Michaelangelo. One method isn’t better than another — whatever
works for you is right.
If you’re frightened by a blank page, put something on it — anything. A
painting teacher once taught me that as I stood staring at a blank canvas.
He walked over and threw ink on my pristine surface, and that got me
moving, even if only to clean up the ink. Some writers break the empti¬
ness with automatic writing or anything a character might say, even if
it’s not the way to open the ⊕. Some people write by hand for the
visceral feel of words flowing from the mind onto paper. Others talk into
a tape recorder.
Aaron Sorkin commented to the Writers Guild Foundation Seminar:
“When I try using a tape player, I freeze up immediately. It’s walking
around and talking to myself; it’s driving and talking to myself. Ultimately,
it’s about typing. The problem I have with these new fangled computers is
that they don’t make a good sound. It used to be... a typewriter makes a
sound like you’re working. I like the clack.”
So do whatever spins your wheels. But stick with professional form when
you turn in your draft. You already know you need specialized screen¬
writing software, and you ought to be up on how scripts look. It might
help to refer to the samples from NYPD Blue in Chapter Three. And in
case you need a quick refresher, here’s a “cheat sheet” on standard form.
1 5 D WRITING I H t TV D R fl M R 5 E R I E 5 / P fl M U G L R 5
ACT TVJO
FADE IN:
EXT. LOCATION - TIT/IE OF DAY
The action is in a paragraph at the outside margin and goes
all across the page, single-spaced.
When you introduce a character for the first time, use
capitals. Example: CHARACTER ONE enters. But when Character
One is mentioned again, that name will not be upper case
(except when heading ⊘, of course).
CHARACTER ONE
⊘. Try to Iceep this to under
5 lines per speech, and always
condense to minimum.
CHARACTER TWO
Responses can include pauses, often
indicated by...
(⊜)
And then the ⊘ continues
after the parenthetical.
CHARACTER ONE
(parenthetical)
The parenthetical above should
modify or describe how a line is
said, but not give a large action.
If you want Character One to go across the room and do
something, that belongs here in action, not in a
parenthetical.
CHARACTER ONE (CONT'D)
When the same character continues
spealcing after an action, indicate
it with (CONT'D) after the name.
INT. LOCATION - TIME OF DAY
Give only enough description to build dramatic tension or
reveal an essential insight into character or ⊗. Do not
indulge in set decoration.
CHARACTER ONE
Notice that after a new slug line,
you don't need to write "CONT'D"
though the same character is
spealcing.
(MORE)
CHARACTER ONE(cont'd)
When ⊘ goes on long like
this and breaks in the ⊦ of
the page, use "more" and "cont'd"
as illustrated. Do not write long
⊘ speeches like this though!
SECONDARY SLUG LINE
A secondary slug line might include ANGLE ON A DETAIL, or one
specific room or part of a ⊕, such as CLOSET.
In spec scripts and all first drafts, do not put numbers on
the scenes nor "continued" on the tops and bottoms of pages.
That happens only in the final shooting script.
And when you reach the end of each Act and the end of the
script...
FADE OUT.
I 5 2 W R I T I N B THE TV D H fl M H SERIES / P H M D 0 y E L H S
Remember, you’re writing a “selling script,” not a “shooting script.” You
want to entice a reader, especially if this is a spec, so write what will keep
someone interested. Mr. Sorkin shared this insight at the Seminar:
“...The selling script is the most important right now. I’m not writing a script right
now for a line producer to sit and budget, for a DP [Director of Photography] to
work at. I’m writing a script for you to read, to sit there at night — you can’t stop
turning the pages, this is so much fun. Even now in the scripts that I write, I only,
frankly, describe what’s important for you to get that moment. It’s possible that
I’m going to describe, ‘and the camera pushes in and pushes in and pushes in’
and I’m probably going to write it like that because I’m building tension for the
reader at that point. Mostly I write for ⊘, and ⊘ is what you read
fastest when you’re reading a screenplay. Description just slows it down...”
Aim toward page 17 to end your ⊫ (including the teaser if you have
one), page 30 to end Act Two, around 45 to end Act Three, and somewhere
between 55 and 65 at the end of Act Four (57 to 60 pages is an average
total length). Those are approximate guides, not rules, though. A filmed
episode might run anywhere from 44 to 52 minutes (without commercials),
depending on the outlet, but you won’t know the actual length of your script
until several drafts from now when a shooting script is read through by the
cast and timed with a stopwatch. I gave you that page count only so you can
check yourself. If you’re way off — for example an hour script that’s 30 pages
or 90 — it’s time to trouhle-shoot. Here are some quick diagnostics:
IF YOU'RE RUMMIMG LONG:
• Are the speeches over-written, explanatory or redundant? Tighten the
⊘.
• Have you indulged in set decoration, directing on the page, or over¬
blown description? Take a sharp knife to these.
• Are certain acts long, though the script is the right length? Move the act
breaks by enhancing a different cliffhanger or re-ordering scenes.
• Have you indulged in backstory or secondary characters or tangents?
Return to your original outline and stick to a clean, clear telling.
• Have you engaged the scenes as close as possible to the ⊖? Have
you ended scenes immediately after the ⊝ or goal? If you have
written prologues or epilogues to your scenes, get rid of them.
• Is there too much story? If your outline was accurate, this shouldn’t be a
problem, but you might have fooled yourself in the outline by counting
sequences of scenes as one ⊜. If so, you need to re-think the stories
themselves, or delete an entire arc. This is major work, not editing (see
the discussion of “second draft”).
W R I T I'n G YOUR OWN EPISODE 1 5 3
IF YOU'RE RUninilMC SHORT:
• Have you fleshed out your scenes? A script is not merely an outline with
⊘. It requires re-imagining each dramatic moment as an experi¬
ence. Make sure you’ve fully told your story, including reactions as well
as actions.
• Do you have enough story? If your outline only seemed to be complete,
but actually contained mostly a premise or the circumstances in which a
story would occur, you’ll need to go back to the outline stage and create
more events, more real turns — more of a ⊗. Re-write the outline
before you re-write the script in this case.
m IHE END OEII DLL...
Sorry, there isn’t an end, at least not anytime soon. This process will go on for
as many more drafts as you can stand, and if your episode is produced, some
writers revise all through post-production and only quit fixing things when
they’re forced to because the thing is on the air! In television, this obsessive
tinkering is Hmited, fortunately, because shows get on the air very quickly.
If this is an assigned script, you probably have to deliver it to the head-
writer now. But if you’re ahead of schedule by a day or so, don’t hand it in
early. Take that day to let the script “cool,” then re-read it with as much
distance as you can muster and refine what you can, but deliver on time. TV
schedules don’t have much slack, and slackers don’t get much work in TV.
If this is your own spec with no deadline, now is an opportunity for feed¬
back. Have your draft read by everyone, not just other writers or your
grandma who thinks everything you do is perfect. Sometimes an outside
reader will ask what you need to hear: “Why would she do that?” “I don’t
get why they don’t just make up.” Or you might hear awful reactions: “Is
this supposed to be a parody of Friends}” Don’t be crushed by one stupid
reader. On the other hand, the reader might be on to something. It’s a gift
to have the chance to re-consider.
If readers are too polite, or don’t know how to give feedback, ask them
three simple questions:
• Do you care about the people in the stories?
• Were you rooting for something to happen?
• What do you think this script is all about?
1 G 4 WRITING IRE TV D R fl M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P H M D 0 G G L H 5
After all the input, I suggest setting the draft aside for a couple of weeks, if
you can manage that. With enough distance, you might see what you need
to change by yourself. You’ll also see typos that your eyes glazed over
no matter how well you spell-checked and proofread. My favorite was a
student script for the series Boston Public innocently handed in with the
“1” missing on the first page.
M
lECDND DADFI
You need to understand the difference between revising and rewriting. The
kind of editing you do every day — fixing spelling and punctuation, tight¬
ening lines, omitting a speech, clarifying an action, lopping off the heads
or tails of overlong scenes — all those corrections are parts of normal
writing. Rewriting is a whole other job.
A rewrite means re-thinking the structure and sometimes characters as
well. You’re still dealing with the same general story, but you want a fresh
way to tell it. You can’t do that by crossing out lines or replacing words.
Go back to the drawing board.
Start by putting aside the script. I mean it. As long as you cling to the
precious moments you’ve written you’ll be tied to your first draft. Take a
breath and let go. Maybe you’ll be able to use many of the pages you’ve
written; and certain scenes, even sequences, might survive intact. But when
you begin a rewrite, everything is on the table or you’ll turn into a pretzel
trying to fit a structure around scenes that don’t belong.
Depending on the notes you got from the producer or readers, your episode
may require a new outline. Can you work with your existing outline as a
reference to re-organize the beats, or do you have to start over? Either way,
boldly get rid of what hasn’t worked and add completely new elements,
even a new arc, if necessary.
Then begin the second draft using the new outline, though, again, you might
be able to keep much of your first draft. Now, I’m not saying to throw out
the story the show bought (if indeed it was bought). On that point — being
told to do a second draft on an assignment is terrific news. The alternate
is being cut off after the first draft and having your script given to another
writer. Don’t imagine for a minute that anyone’s first draft is shot exactly as
first written, not even when the show-runner writes it himself! And if you’re
on assignment, the second draft generates a payment.
W R I I I N E Y fl U R D W N EPISODE I E E
I had a funny experience with a rewrite. I’d handed in a first draft (this
was actually a TV movie) and the network called for an in-person meeting
at their office. That didn’t bode well because if notes are minor they’re
often given on the phone or in a memo. So, in we went — the producer,
a company executive and me — anticipating a high-level effort to save
the project. As it happened, this particular network exec wasn’t experi¬
enced, and she sat there going page by page through the script. Two hours.
And at the end of it she’d asked for changes in five lines. Five lines! The
producer was so steamed that he told my agent to bill the network for a
full second draft, which amounted to something like a thousand dollars
per word. Don’t count on that kind of waste in episodes, though. Show-
runners mean it when they want a rewrite.
If you’re speculating, draft numbers make no sense. Every selling script
is “First Draft,” even if you’ve written this thing 11 times. To keep track
for yourself, you could put the date of the draft in the lower right corner
of the title page. Or you might run a header showing the revision dates
of specific pages (some screenwriting programs have this application). But
submit your script with no draft numbers or dates. And no colored pages
— that’s for production revisions after the shooting script. Remember, the
sample you send to a producer is always shiny new, hot off your printer.
Technically, a “polish” means what you’d think — a small revision, like
polishing a surface, fine-tuning. Frequently the term is used for a ⊘
polish where a writer goes through a script and sharpens the speeches. Polishes
do not include re-structuring or creating new characters or story arcs.
Sometimes a cultural “wash” is called a ⊘ polish, too. That occurs
when a character’s background is not familiar to the original writer and a
second writer is brought in to make the character speak naturally. Usually
that kind of polish is not credited.
For you, if you’re working on a series, a polish may or may not appear in
your contract, and if it does, the payment is slight. That shouldn’t matter.
If you’re fortunate enough to be kept on an episode after your second
draft, cling with your teeth and fingernails and polish anything including
the boss’s chair. Scripts keep changing, and the more you’re willing to do,
the more the final product will be yours. Of course, if you’re on a staff,
you’ll be polishing other people’s scripts routinely, sometimes because
1 G G WRITING T R E TV 0 R R M R SERIES / P fl M 0 0 U G L R S
the original writer is busy with something larger. It’s a normal stage in
preparing a script for production.
As for your spec script: Polish until it gleams.
Wlfll'i NEXI?
Do it again! If you’re speculating, write another spec for a series that
demonstrates you can work in a different genre. If you’re writing on
assignment, you’ll have the thrill (really) of seeing your creation on screen.
And if it’s well received, you’ll get another assignment in the future.
No matter how this script turns out, the best way to write better is to
write more. If this is your first dramatic episode, you’ve taken a great leap.
Just think how much you learned. And next time it will be easier. Just
kidding. If it’s easy, you’re not stretching. So don’t expect easy, but once
you’re comfortable with the basics, next time will be more fun.
Finally, when you have a few writing samples in your portfolio, you’re
ready for the next step: joining a staff.
In writing your own spec script, go through all the steps from outline to
first draft, second draft, and polish.
An outline is a list of scenes or beats in the order they will occur in your
script. It’s the first professional step and generates a payment and “story
by” credit if you’re writing on assignment. You may create the A, B, and
C stories separately and weave them together, watching that cliffhangers
fall at the act breaks.
All teleplays are in normal screenplay format, written on standard screenwriting
software, using the submissions option rather than as shooting scripts.
Rewriting a script is not the same as editing, and involves re-thinking
structure or characters.
A polish is a smaller revision that refines ⊘ and tightens scenes
before presenting your script.
Ask for feedback on your finished script and be willing to re-write many
times before giving it to a producer or agent as a writing sample.
iPDTLieill ON
Wriiing Yoor Pilot
In the ⊤ is the world. When you write a pilot script, you’re the
creator of a universe that includes places, people, churning and contradic¬
tory desires, threatening situations, even day jobs. And always at the core
are secrets: mysteries so deep and intricate they will take 88 or 100 hours
to discover. But most writers don’t start with those specific revelations, or
even with the cast. And unlike movies, particular arcs in which characters
grow and change are not usually the creator’s agenda on day one.
Many pilot writers begin with total mental immersion in a location where
they will dwell virtually for years. David Simon, creator of HBO’s searing
and insightful urban drama. The Wire, insists his show is about Baltimore.
Each season focuses on one aspect, such as the schools or the media, but
he says the initial inspiration wasn’t the closely perceived drug dealers
and police, or the teenagers portrayed with heartbreaking realism, just:
Baltimore.
For John Sacret Young, creator and show-runner of China Beach (who
was also a writer-producer on The West Wing), the world he wanted to
create was in the Sixties. But how does a writer focus such a broad time
to fit a TV show? He said:
“When you think about the Sixties, what are the things that come to mind?
Obviously, Civil Rights, Vietnam, the turmoil in the American family collec¬
tive, and we asked what else was interesting. We came up with women’s
rights. What was women’s role in society? What were their challenges and
liberties? So we thought if we looked at the role of women, what would be
an astonishing place to put the show? Someone later described it as being
the women’s sauna inside this big men’s locker room.
“When we started to talk about it, started to do research, and started to
interview, it became clear that they went to serve America in the Army. But
what they found was enormously complicated in terms of the emotional
shock to very young women with even less preparation. We wondered what
they knew about the country and what you’re going to see coming into a
triage on a bad day. The good news was that they were trying to save and
157
WRITING THE TV D R fl M fl SERIES / P R M D D U G L R S
help people. The bad news was that they were
then embroiled in this conundrum, surrounded
by this alien atmosphere. What an interesting
intersection of forces. That excited us.
“Besides the nurses, there were other women
there as reporters and with the Red Cross. In the
case of the character K.C. — as a sort of capi¬
talist, she was an independent contractor with
a past that almost necessitated that she either
die or escape. So the forces that were driving
her were not dissimilar to the characters that, let’s say, Henry James was
writing about or Hemingway was writing about.
“We talked about who are the characters that interest us, and the time period,
and the war. What time should we set it in the war? If our characters are
there, what are the prospects for stories, what are the ways these characters
will intersect and deal with each other and have stories to tell? Before I wrote
the pilot we definitely did backgrounds on all of the characters and wrote up
bios on them. We talked about stories, but they weren’t laid out specifically,
although, before the series was picked up, we did lay out possible episodes. I
don’t think we had any idea where the series would ever go.”
For John Sacret Young, the pilot emanated from both a geographic and
cultural setting. But sometimes the “world” is tied to a quest or special
character rather than a place. No one would mistake House for a show
about Chicago. Instead House’s world is his diagnostic unit in his hospital;
and within that, the internal landscape of House’s need to overcome “a
world of pain” (his own) propels the stories. And no one would mistake
House’s hospital for the one in ER, though it’s also in Chicago. And Grey’s
Anatomy’s Seattle Grace Hospital is in a big American city too, though
it claims a world of its own. Try this exercise yourself: How does the
“world” of Grey’s differ from both House and ER}
Damon Lindelof, co-creator of Lost, also began his world with a place:
a mysterious island where a plane has crashed. But he advises that the
starting point for most shows is usually not as challenging: “When you
talk about television shows, there is a franchise element and the franchise
is the world. A hospital, a law firm or a precinct — those are the easiest
worlds for a television series. You know what kinds of stories inhabit
those worlds. The harder worlds are a spaceship that is being pursued
across the galaxy or you’re on an island in the ⊦ of nowhere that the
audience knows you cannot leave.
S P 0 T L I 6 H I ON WRITING YOUR PILOT I 5 9
*•1*1
' DriS ^g/Hh ' d/ihJM ^
o^r Mi ^ ^ dy/^
Stx vy
q c=:—- 7]u M^ ^ p
- --—.!^
\f dy/x Hki W ^
r Mty ^ M£^
/ / (/ ' Tts^^t^y ryf^y —
i
'6ii>e^ic:io ij^ e^'<r } ^ 'Z^ZZZ'
j /fc/i? ’ #" TAaylf it A-^Z ^ "
I ^S:s-£ ■ —^ -v= A t ^ta^>i^
yiS7uy^u;%/Z^sZ ^ ^ ,
4U Atik.<ya firsrA^, ^
/jAi. &/itt' ^dA-,
^iu, 4e:/h^ ^ /iv-/^‘■'- -''^ ••
<&'/ s: ki^f
■. 'i
&j/,i
A^t . Ti V W ^ ^ ' -^
-4^,' /z; s-Afi 0 ^ ^ <fa^Mp •’'—
it-Mii) liUif-, ^Cj^JcteoLL. JY' «/'! AC’‘^t £iMujidu.-c
n,e !Kiu^.<r ^ ,f ii^r >A^r
UJ^U 'l " ' . y (
T?i^,
i^at'^ , tA^mae.:.', Tf-c‘^ ■
-• ^ «/T C)a. - AW-? f'
Handwritten page from China Beach
W R 11 I N 0 THE TV 0 R fl M fl SERIES / P R M D 0 U 6 E R S
“The question is who’s going to be interacting with that world? That’s what
separates a good cop show from a bad cop show and a good medical show
from a bad medical show. They both deal with the same patients, but the
issue is: Who are the doctors who are tending to those patients? A feel-good
show like Grey’s Anatomy is a much different show from EK, but only
because of the people. Otherwise it’s exactly the same show as £R.”
Okay, let’s say you’ve fully moved into your new mental home — the world
of your series. What’s next? Not writing — not quite yet, though you should
be jotting notes all along. Now you need to fully imagine what makes stories
happen in your world. That’s not limited to the pilot episode, but requires
figuring out the “motor” of the show. Do people come in with cases to
solve? If so, that doesn’t necessarily mean a legal or crime case, or a disease.
In a sense, a case could be a relationship issue, or coping with alien invaders
or special powers that can change history (as in Heroes). As long as char¬
acters have long-range quests that incur ⊖, and their stories present
both internal and external jeopardy, you can discover the “springboards”
for stories within your world. This potential for future stories is the essential
that differentiates writing a pilot from writing anything else on screen.
Once you know how your show “works” within a rich world, your next
step is probably to draw out the main cast. I use that phrase “draw out” as
opposed to introduce or even create, because if your world is fully enough
imagined, these people already live there. In fact, if you have a problem
knowing the three or four or five people who your show is about, you
should go back to step one and delve deeper into your world. That’s not to
say you’ll know everyone in a large ensemble cast, or that characters you
didn’t see at first won’t step out and greet you as you write. Actually, as a
writer it’s wonderful to be surprised like that. But beginners shouldn’t tackle
a big ensemble anyway. It’s difficult enough to write a few people well!
Some writers do thorough bios of their characters at this point. Some
sketch out moments, phrases or images that “pop” a character. I once
wrote a pilot where I needed a way to tag a character (express her) in order
to pitch the show. I saw her speeding into the outskirts of Los Angeles at
dawn in a ⊜-up convertible, bare feet pressing the pedals to the metal
while her butt danced on the car seat to the sound of “Mustang Sally.” In
another glimpse, close and tight, she took her time licking the remnants
of Kentucky Fried Chicken off a paper wrapper while a motel proprietor
banged on her door. Only one of those moments actually appeared in the
script, but both helped me visualize her at an early stage.
5 P 0 I L I B H T ON W R I I I N G YOUR PILOT
Let’s say you have your world, your springboards, and your main cast. Yes,
you’re creeping up on writing the thing. Remember that you must grab
readers even before this pilot ever gets to viewers, so your first ten pages (or
less) are critical. Don’t lay back and wait for episode 88, or even 22 to reel
in your audience with a revelation. Get a sense of anticipation started now.
What do you need to generate anticipation? Answer the basic dramatic
questions: Do we care about (or are we intrigued by) your main character?
What does the character want urgently? Why does she need it so desper¬
ately? Who and what opposes her? Are the chances of succeeding and failing
nearly equal? Then you rev up the action until we expect her to reach the
goal — at which point you twist it, pulling out the rug, so we discover this
quest will have way more ramifications, to be continued in later episodes.
Of course, that’s oversimplifying. The point is that in the early pages you
need to set your series in motion by rooting us in at least one member of
your main cast and establishing the series franchise. As for writing the
world, I recommend that you don’t write text to describe it. As vital as
is creating the world for your series — so important that we began with
it — it has to “breathe” through your script, not ever feel “made.” That
is, the world of your show is the show; it’s where your people live. If you
have to explain it, something’s not alive here.
After all that, you’re ready to plan your pilot as you would any ongoing
episode of your show. Does it have four acts? Five? A teaser? Think about
the grid and the discussion of structure in Chapters Three and Four. Since
you’re the creator of this show you get to make those choices (at least
until some network tells you otherwise — but you should be so lucky as
to have a network!). Then move right along to outline, first draft, and all
the revising and polishing that follows.
Once upon a time, spec pilots were indulgences in a fantasy of running a
series of your own. Now, agents and producers will read them as writing
samples. And, yes, sometimes they even get made. Because of this oppor¬
tunity, I asked my colleague, Georgia Jeffries, to speak to you about her
experiences with pilot writing.
GyE$I JPEnKER:
GEORGIR Jeefriee
Georgia Jeffries wrote and produced for Cagney & Lacey and was
Supervising Producer of China Beach. She is on the faculty of the USC
School of Cinematic Arts.
CJ: I’ve written eight drama pilots — the most enjoyable television writing
I’ve ever done because of the opportunity each provided to define and
explore a whole new world.
When I teach my pilot class, I tell the students that creating a series is
a hybrid of short story writing and screenwriting. It is, ultimately, the
creation of a novel on film. Just as Dickens wrote “episodes” of his novels
in penny magazines week by week and month by month, so must the pilot
writer conceive complex characters whose stories will have the potential
to evolve over the long haul.
Right now (with due respect to Dickens once again) is “the best of times
and the worst of times” to be a pilot writer. There are exceptionally imagi¬
native pilot storylines that foster a higher bar for creative product. Yet it’s
also an extraordinarily competitive job market. There are indeed more
buyers — pay and basic cable as well as the broadcast networks. But
because of vertical integration, a number of those buyers are often owned
by the same conglomerate. Seventy to eighty percent of all pilots ordered
by the networks are being developed by their own auxiliary companies. If
it’s on ABC, it’s fairly certain that it’s going to be produced by Touchstone.
So if the pilot writer doesn’t have a deal at Touchstone, chances are s/he
will not get a pick-up from ABC.
162
G U E 5 T S P E n K [ R : GEORGIA J E E F R I E 5 I 6 3
Stakes are higher than ever because of multi-million dollar production
costs coupled with continuing losses at the broadcast networks. They’re
competing with each other to reclaim the audience they’re losing to the
Internet and video games. The amount of serialization this past season
was an effort to hook in more viewers. But at least half of those pilots
— several really excellent in quality — failed commercially.
I believe that means we need to target the audience in a new way with
more “limited series.” I remember the iconic Twin Peaks which made
such a lasting impression. An agent of mine said that it should have been a
mini-series spread over several seasons. And that is essentially what HBO
and Showtime are doing with a number of their series today, ordering
only 10 or 16 episodes at a time (with a long hiatus in between) instead
of 22 or 24, the usual broadcast order. That translates into more time and
freedom for the creative artist behind the show, and conversely more time
for the audience to discover the show amidst such a plethora of choices.
The more the marketplace expands and re-defines what it is a series can
be, the more opportunity for more pilots to be written by new talent.
PD: When your students try to do pilots, what do you warn them about?
What traps do you advise them to look out for?
CJ: My largest concern is that they come into the classroom trying to
emulate only what they’ve already seen on TV. I encourage them to take
creative risks. After they watch what’s on the air and read a number of
pilot scripts, they have to distance themselves, take a long leap off the cliff
of their own psyche and think about what they would like to see. The only
way to write effectively is to stop censoring themselves as to what is or is
not possible.
PD: When a writer approaches writing a pilot what does she have to keep
in mind that’s different from writing an episodic script?
CJ: Thinking long term is the major difference. Our students are required
to write synopses of ten episodes for the first season. They really should
be thinking even farther ahead to what the 23rd episode is going to be for
the second season.
How is a pilot different from writing in a series? Well, that’s easy: the only
⊞ they have to emulate is their own. But that’s often the problem! They
may not have discovered their own voices yet, and what they think is their
⊞ may just be copying J. J. Abrams or Shonda Rhimes. Defining one’s
own unique ⊞ requires an acutely observant eye and a kind of bold
I G 4 W R I 1 I N 6 THE IV 0 R fl M fl SERIES / P fl M D 0 U G L H S
irreverence. It takes guts to be original in an industry that feeds on novelty
but often fears true innovation.
PD: How do you deal with all the exposition students sometimes think
they need to write in pilots: They have to explain the world, introduce all
the main characters, start the stories running that will have long arcs?
CJ: One of my students had a real challenge with that this semester. She
was writing a science fiction show and going into great detail about the
planets and space stations, all of which distracted from the story instead
of grounding it. The big instruction for her was to contemporize this
faraway world. Come back from the future and put it into the present in
a way the reader can understand.
She was best able to do this with witty ⊘ that sounded like contem¬
poraries talking at a coffee shop on campus. That was the key — making
those characters speak in a vernacular that was identifiable. She also had
to reduce the ⊚ text to the most essential and dramatically inter¬
esting description. That meant putting emphasis on the verbs and the
nouns to keep a sense of dynamic action - both physical and emotional.
PD; When you create your own pilot, where do you start? Do you start
with the world or the characters? What is the creative evolution for you?
GJ: I generally have started with the world.
PD: That’s interesting for you because you’re such a “character” person.
CJ: Yes, but for me place is character. The first broadcast pilot I wrote
was about young female surgeons at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in
Washington, D.C. So it was a very specific location — a military hospital
full of returning vets. A later script, this one for pay cable, was also set
in Washington, D.C. — but in a far more rarefied world of power and
intrigue on the Beltway.
In this most recent pilot I’ve written, the characters were alive in my mind
for awhile before I could put them on the page. That didn’t happen until
I decided to take them home to Illinois. I’m from the Midwest originally,
but I’ve never written a pilot set in the Midwest. At last I had a place I
wanted to take them.
PD: If someone wanted to write a pilot who didn’t have the fortune to be
in your class, or even in film school, what would you advise them?
6 U E S T S P E n K E R ; 6 E 0 R G I fl J E E E R I E 5 I G 5
GJ: First they should visit the Writers Guild Library on Third and Fairfax
in Los Angeles because that has the richest collection of award-winning,
critically acclaimed pilots in the world. Study a number of those pilots as
well as later episodes in the series.
Also they should take heart that it’s not beyond the realm of possibility
that they could actually get their pilot on the air. This is a 21st-century
phenomenon. It certainly was not a possibility when you and I were
starting out. It wasn’t even a possibility ten years ago, but the market is
hungrier than ever for the next hit.
The FX show It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia began as a short script
and a six-minute video submitted by a creative team not yet established
in the business. Miracles do happen, but only if you’ve prepared by doing
your best work.
PD: When you go into a pilot [like the one that dealt with racial politics
in Mobile, Alabama], you have certain themes, certain subjects you want
to explore, then how do you proceed? Did you do an outline? Did you
think through a whole year of arcs? Or did you really just start with the
premise?
GJ: I always did story treatments, of course, but was never required by
any of the networks to do a bible of future episodes. I did that on my own,
assembling a tremendous amount of research for myself. With each of my
pilots I put together — and I’m not exaggerating — files that were three
to four inches thick, all full of character and story ideas. I was constantly
pulling out articles from magazines, recording something I heard on NPR.
I never felt I could relax and assume I had enough story fodder to get to
the magic 100th episode.
I remember some of the earliest direction I got on my first draft pilots
was, “take us further in the ⊨ story... bring us into the heightened
drama earlier.” My initial instinct was to hold back some of the mystery
to surprise the audience later, but I learned that was a luxury I couldn’t
afford. I had to hook the executives first, while still keeping a number
of tricks up my sleeve. That meant sometimes painting in more obvious
colors than I would have liked (because I think the best storytelling is
subtle and “between the lines”).
I kept getting notes on my pilots to go bigger and broader earlier on so
viewers would know exactly what was at stake. So I learned to push the
characters to the emotional brink in that first episode.
W R I T I N B THE TV D R fl M fl SERIES / P H M D D R 6 L H S
When I guide my class through the pilot process, I tell them to create at
least ten questions the viewer could agonize about at the end of the first
episode — what’s going to happen to this or that character or story point.
If viewers think they know the answers, they’re not going to bother to
come back for the second episode. That also helps to determine the ten
short synopses students have to come up with for future episodes.
PD: On the business side, what advice might you give a novice who wrote
a pilot and found herself suddenly in business with a network.
GJ: One of the best pieces of advice I received at the very ⊤ of
my career came from a friend who advised me to get an entertainment
attorney to serve as part of my business team along with my agent. So
even though the attorney commissions an additional 5% of any of my fees
in addition to the 10% for the agent. I’ve kept that attorney for twenty
years now. I want that extra advocate protecting my interests in case some
of the executives, producers, directors or actors are represented by the
same agency.
PD: Do you prefer writing a pilot to either a movie or an episode of a
series?
GJ: Yes, no question, because I’m thinking long-term. I’m thinking 22
hours, not two hours.
PD: Even though a movie is just as original, this is much bigger.
GJ: And even more demanding. We know what it’s like to live 14 hours
a day with these characters, day after day, during seasons when you have
a six-week hiatus if you’re lucky. I could never approach a pilot half¬
heartedly. Creating any successful series demands a commitment of body
and soul.
li'$ Who Ydu Know:
Working on Ytoff
RecentOy, a student on the verge of graduating asked me what was the
single most important lesson I’d learned in writing for television. Her
question started me thinking. Of course, I’d acquired writing skills, some
insights into what works on screen, and a few experiences negotiating the
system. But that’s not what she meant. She was looking for career advice
gleaned from what I might have done better.
I fast-forwarded through mistakes I’d made, like the time I turned down
a staff position on a series because three better opportunities were
around the corner. Well, one show wasn’t picked up; on a second, the
producer decided to write the pilot himself; and for job three, another
writer was chosen. I found myself out of work as a writer for more than
six months. Fortunately, I’ve had a “day job” teaching screenwriting at
use throughout my writing career, ⊮’s not unusual for writers to be
“between assignments” for months at a time. I’m telling you this at the
start of the chapter on staff work where the pay is consistent and you may
feel lulled into a sense of security. Here’s my advice: Get yourself some
other survival resource, whether that’s an alternate writing venue (like
journalism or educational videos), or a non-writing job, or a partner who
helps carry expenses. But was that the most important lesson I wanted to
pass on to the student?
I also thought about scripts I might have written better. When you see
your work on screen, sometimes you’re grateful — really — to the actors
and directors who bring a moment to life. But once in a while you cringe,
“I did not write that clunky line... did I?” Or, “Does this seem as slow
167
1 G B WRITING IKE TV D R fl M K 5 E R I E 5 / P fl M D 0 y 6 L H S
to you as it does to me? Why didn’t I tighten that ⊜? No, it was the
director’s fault... or was it my fault?” But all that’s really fleeting.
The more I considered what mattered in building a writing career I came
to a single lesson: Make friends. No doubt, you’ve heard the line “it’s
who you know, not what you know;” or, put another way, “this town is
all about relationships.” Those glib sayings fit certain agents, managers,
and producers. But I suggest you think about it somewhat differently as
a writer.
Especially on TV series staffs, the act of creating is not private, though
you certainly bring your unique talents. Writers tend to want to work
with other writers who enable them to do their own best work. That often
means choosing collaborators who make them comfortable enough to
take creative risks, and who can be trusted to deliver quality ⊘ or
story twists or humor or tales of life. Much of this rests on what’s on the
page. But no producer-writer has the time to comb every writing sample.
Producers hire whom they know.
Now, that doesn’t mean you have to party with powerful people or suck
up to their families. It means forming networks of professional trust. You
do that through good work followed by staying in touch. Students just out
of film school often form workshops that meet at each other’s apartments,
not only for continuing feedback on writing, and commiseration, but also
for the connections. One of my writing students formed an alliance with a
producing student who wanted to be an agent. On graduating, the junior
agent got a job as, well, a junior agent, and brought along the writer as a
first client. In time, they rose together.
If you’re not in film school, you might make similar connections at semi¬
nars, workshops, and extension classes open to the public. Or maybe
you’ll land a ⊤ assignment on a small show. The people in
the cubicles next to you aren’t always going to be in those cubicles.
Someone’s going to move on to a better series, someone’s going to
become a producer, someone’s going to be asked to recommend a writer,
maybe with qualifications just like yours. Join professional groups, and
when you’re eligible, become active in the Writers Guild. Even if you’re
shy or a hermit (or so focused on the characters you’re creating you
don’t want to be bothered with actual humans), push yourself out of
your shell. That’s the one thing I wish I’d done more, and I offer it to
you as the career lesson I learned.
II'S WHO YOU KHOW: WORKING ON STUFF
If it wasn’t for my history with one particular network executive I wouldn’t
have been able to tell a story that meant a lot to me. A teenage friend of
my daughter was visiting one day and mentioned, all too casually, that her
mother had been diagnosed with breast cancer. The girl blew it off as if it
didn’t affect her. I realized she was in deep denial, utterly unprepared to
face the reality of the upcoming surgery. Thinking about her, it occurred
to me that dramas had been done about breast cancer — and the last thing
I wanted to do was a disease-of-the-week movie — but no one had dealt
with this serious subject from the daughter’s point of view. What inter¬
ested me was not the illness but the relationship and how such an event
would affect a teenager’s sense of what it means to be a woman, and what
would happen if she lost her mother.
Had I set out to write a script, or even a treatment, or even a pitch, and
asked my agent to arrange meetings with potential producers, followed
by waiting for their responses, followed by scheduling network meetings,
and re-scheduling them after they’re postponed, followed by who-knows-
how-many network pitches, followed by who-knows-how-long-I’d-wait
for an answer that might be no ... half a year might go by before I could
write this, if ever.
Instead, I picked up the phone. I had some credits at CBS — four were on
series and a couple of others on original dramas — and a year earlier I’d
shared a table with one of the CBS Vice Presidents. We were at the cere¬
mony for the prestigious Humanitas Prize that gives awards for writing
in film and television, and I was a finalist for an original drama that she’d
greenlighted. When I didn’t win, she leaned over and whispered something
like “let’s try again,” or “let’s do something else.” I don’t think I actually
heard her words over the applause for my competitor.
But that was enough of a “relationship” for her to take my phone call. I
did a minimal pitch, like “let’s do something about breast cancer but from
the teenage daughter’s point of view.” She said “Sure. Who do you want
to produce?” I chose a company I’d worked with before because I liked
their attitude of respecting the script and I believed I could trust the taste
of a particular producer there. Also, I knew they’d be approved because
they were a frequent vendor. The network V.P said fine. One quick call
to the producer’s office, and the deal was done. A year later, that project,
“Between Mother and Daughter,” did win the Humanitas Prize. My point
isn’t about winning awards, of course. I’m showing you how wheels turn
based on relationships — not personal ones, but through mutual respect.
I 7 0 WRITING THE TV D R fl M fi SERIES / P R M D 0 U G L R S
At other times, I’ve lost out on being considered for staffs of shows because
I wasn’t part of a social circle — the show-runners simply didn’t know me.
I understand how frustrated you may feel on the outside looking in. So in
the spirit of learning from my mistakes, here’s a tale of:
IHE hllFF FROM iFll
(Cue howling wolves and lightning)
Anyone who has been on staff has a war story. That’s because the prox¬
imity of staff writing resembles a trench during a battle. You make close
buddies, or have to watch your back, or both. When I entered my own
staff hell, I already had a number of produced credits and had spent
time on staffs before, though they were either outside the mainstream or
short-lived because the series were quickly cancelled. So this was my first
experience on a staff of a major network show, and I made every mistake
in the book — only there wasn’t any book at the time. I wish I’d had this
book because I might have avoided:
MISTAKE 1: DON'T SEPARATE FROM THE STAFF.
Since the series was new, it was allotted a floor of empty offices on a
studio lot. The show-runner walked the whole staff over and let each of us
claim the office we wanted. I thought the quality of my writing was what
mattered so I grabbed the quietest spot waaaay off in a distant corner.
Meanwhile, the savvy guys nabbed offices that hugged the show-runner’s.
Every time he walked out of his office he saw them, and they’d be at hand
for quick rewrites — the staff members he’d come to rely on. And they’d
be first to overhear gossip — actors in or out of favor, network pressures,
production or story glitches — and nudge their drafts accordingly.
This principle of staying in the mix infuses all the situations below, though
it applies mostly to ⊤ staffers. At higher echelons, producer-writers
can’t be in the office all the time because they’re on the set or away on
location shoots. And on many shows “creative consultants” aren’t around
at all unless they’re called. But these lessons are meant for you.
MISTAKE 2; DON'T MIX PERSONAL AND WORK ISSUES.
Every staff becomes a family, dysfunctional or mellow. Now imagine
your family members locked in one room together all day, every day for
IT'5 WHO YOy KNDW: WORKING ON SIflFF 1 7 I
six months. Got the picture? A degree of intimacy is unavoidable at the
writing table when the staff is delving the feelings and motives of charac¬
ters, pulling from their own experiences. “When a guy stood me up, this
is what I did...” That sort of insight can inform the realness of storytelling
— a good thing.
But honesty can rise awfully quickly to “tmi” (too much information).
You’ll know you slipped over the edge between confessions in group
therapy and story beats by the discomfort in the room or the head writer
saying “let’s move on.” Remember, this is collaboration on shared char¬
acter arcs that involves “catching the ⊞” of existing characters. One
day, if you’re the series creator it may also be a more personal expression;
now, you’re on a team.
Even if you’re cool at the writer’s table, watch out to maintain “friendly
professionalism” at lunch, at the water cooler, everywhere at work. The
other writers may be competing with you. On the staff-from-hell, I stopped
by the office of my “new friend,” whom I’ll call Mr. Horns. Like me, he
was a lower-level staffer trying to get a toe-hold on the career ladder. Two
tiny pink booties from his baby daughter hung from his desk lamp.
I related immediately — I also had a young child. Ruefully, he said he left
in the morning before she was awake and came home after she was asleep
and was too busy writing on the weekend to spend time with her. “I’ll see
her in six months when we’re on hiatus,” he shrugged. I commiserated and
confided that juggling my schedule was an issue. He shook his head — his
wife didn’t work, so she took care of everything at home. “You’re not going
to be able to do this job,” he said flatly, as I noticed the protrusions on the
sides of his head. And he was sure to relay my problem to the boss.
MISTAKE 3: DON'T HAVE OTHER PLANS.
Unfortunately, Mr. Horns was partly right. Working on a series staff
consumes most of your time and all your energy. It’s great for people who
have few outside obligations, but balancing a home life is tricky. I did
work on one show where the entire staff had kids, and it was so well-orga¬
nized that we almost always arrived at 10 and left at five. The Supervising
Producer had the clout to negotiate a deal to arrive at 8:30 so she could
leave at four, most days, and be around when her kids came home from
school. That’s rare, though.
This is not about women’s issues or family versus career. When you agree to
join a series staff, your life has to change. You can’t take much of a lunch
1 1 2 WRITING THE TV D R fi M R 5 E R I E 5 / P R M 0 0 U G L R 5
break with friends. Chances are you’re catching lunch in the studio commis¬
sary or at your desk. You may have only an hour between the morning
staff meetings and an afternoon screening, or between casting and dailies,
or between a quick, urgent script polish and breaking a story for the next
episode. If you drive off the lot to lunch, you’ll be late for your afternoon
meeting. Fuhgeddabout it. As for your other screenplays, your novel, dating,
or camping out in the desert — hey, that’s what hiatus is for.
MISTAKE 4: DON'T WORK AT HOME INSTEAD.
Each staff member writes individual episodes in addition to work-shop¬
ping everyone else’s scripts and re-writing other people’s drafts. In a full
season, you can usually count on two episodes, but depending on the size
of the staff, how much the boss likes your work, and how clever you are
at pitching stories, you might write more.
Maybe you’re used to working in bedroom slippers at 4:00 AM, or blasting
a CD in your private room, or shutting your door and hovering over the
computer in silence for hours, then going to the gym before returning to
your computer. Sorry, folks, none of that’s likely on staff. Personally, I find
it difficult to concentrate in a public office off a noisy corridor with inter¬
ruptions every half hour, having to break for screenings and meetings. But
some writers tune out the world so well they can write in the office all day.
And headphones may help.
On the staff from the netherworld I wanted to prove myself by bringing
in a wonderful draft of the first episode assigned to me, and deliver it
ahead of schedule, certainly within two weeks. So I asked Mr. Horns if
he thought it would be okay to write at home. “Absolutely” he grinned
widely. “Do whatever it takes to write what you want to write. Just go.
And if it takes three weeks, that’s cool too. Don’t waste your time coming
in.” I asked the show-runner for permission, and he shrugged “Sure,”
though he was busy with something else.
So I went home. For two weeks. Let me tell you, in that two weeks the
script slated to run before mine killed off the character I needed to twist
my story, a pivotal location was ruled out by the network, two actors in
the cast were having an affair, and an intern took over my office because
“no one was in it.” By the time I brought in my draft, still warm from
copying, it was out of touch with the series. And so was I.
Learn from my experience: Stay connected, even if you get virtually
nothing written all day and have to work all night at home.
I I ' S WHO YOU KNOW: WORKING ON U 0 F F I 7 3
MISTAKE 5: DON'T BE PRECIOUS ABOUT YOUR SCRIPT.
You become attached, of course. Look how wonderful your script is: The
shape of a certain ⊕ builds to a ⊝ then twists unexpectedly and
turns the story just in time; a precise detail reveals passion felt but hidden;
in a nuance of character, the backstory is deftly sensed; a phrase came so
perfectly as if the character was writing instead of you. It’s everything a
writer would want from a script, or so you believe as you type “Fade Out.”
So it’s difficult to bring your script to the table, no matter how supportive
the staff, and no matter how often you’ve been through the process.
But the day arrives when copies of your script have been distributed to
the staff, and everyone is assembling for the meeting at which it will be
discussed. I said discussed, not shredded. Let’s not be paranoid. Somehow,
you’ll need to distance yourself from it now. Try to think what’s good
for the show, not what bolsters your ego. It really doesn’t matter how
hard you worked, or how you arrived at the reasoning under a speech or
action, or how much you don’t want to lose a certain moment.
If the consensus of the staff — or simply the opinion of the head writer/
show-runner — is that something isn’t clear or doesn’t tell the story well
or is not credible or steps on something in a different episode, or any other
criticism, I advise you not to argue. Of course, you may clarify your inten¬
tion, but then let it go. If you’re a good enough writer to be on the staff
you’re skilled enough to re-write and come up with a revised draft that’s
even better than this.
If you don’t, someone else will.
MISTAKE 6: DON'T "DIS" THE CULTURE OF THE STAFF.
Skilled professional writers fill the staffs of television shows, but that’s a
little like saying most human families consist of people — it’s a minimum
requirement but doesn’t tell much about what goes on. Each staff develops
a kind of culture, just as families do. This comes from shared interests,
experiences, memories, and (in the best cases) shared goals. If you think
you and your dog begin to seem alike after awhile, consider a room full of
writers melding their minds to tell stories about the same characters.
Often the show-runner sets the tone — formal, laid back, brooding, artistic,
intellectual, homespun, sex-tinged, political, romantic, drugged-out, pious...
and so forth. Sometimes the culture fits the nature of the series, but not
always. In the case of the staff-from-hell, the prevailing ethos had nothing
to do with the subject of the series. It was blatant misogyny.
1 7 4 W R IT I N B THE TV 0 fl fl M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P R M 0 D U E L H 5
Every staff meeting began the same way: A half hour of sports talk, football,
basketball or baseball, recapping the plays from a game in detail, arguing
over which man is better. And there I sat, the only woman in the room,
irrelevant because I didn’t know about guys doing things with balls.
Even when the sports-talk gave way to writing, the sense of the room
remained. And one day, when we were working on an outline for an
important episode, and it was time for a break, the entire staff (except me)
convened to the men’s room, where they stayed for 20 minutes, finishing
the outline.
I wracked my mind to figure out how to function with this staff since
watching sports and shooting hoops in the parking lot seemed more
important than anything I could write. The frustration mounted until
one day I erupted, “Are you finished with the male bonding yet?” Mr.
Horns couldn’t contain his smile that I’d finally sunk myself, so my future
episodes would be his; he’d get the promotion, the raise, the credits and
acclaim — or so he calculated. If I’d been wiser and more confident, I
wouldn’t have tried to join on their terms, but might have discovered
other interests in common with at least one of the staff and created an
ally. “Dissing” the culture of the show — putting it down — alienated me
further and made it more difficult to work.
Think about high school. Everyone is in cliques and you’re the new kid
who just transferred. How do you begin fitting in? Probably you start
with one interest, and someone else interested in it; a first friend. An
important lesson.
MISTAKE 7: DON'T WORK ON A SERIES THAT'S WRONG FOR YOU.
The staff from down below was probably a wrong fit, no matter what I’d
done. Lots of TV series are out there and even though you (understand¬
ably) need to start somewhere, misery is not an essential rung on the
ladder. You need references as well as good work to move ahead. A show
that you have to omit from your resume can hurt you more than having
had no job at all. When you apply for your next staff, the new producer
will certainly phone the former one, and may ask the other writers how it
was to work with you.
I stayed through my entire contracted season with this show, but in
retrospect it would have been better to leave sooner and get on with
my writing and career. I’m not advising you to quit when the going gets
rough; if the quality of the show is worth it, and you can write well
IT'S WHO YOU KNOW: WORKING ON STRFF I 1 5
despite bad vibes, stay with it and amass those credits. But if the quality
of your writing is suffering, go ahead and bail after speaking with the
show-runner, especially if you can negotiate a non-damaging reference
from him. With all you’ve learned, you can go on to another, better staff.
You’re not alone. Almost every TV writer has had a difficult experience
at least once, and most omit the rubble of their histories from their
resumes. You’ll survive it, too.
Thi Good imiF
Emmy Magazine, the publication of the Academy of Television Arts and
Sciences, asked in 2004, “What does it take to make a creative ensemble
run smoothly?” J.J. Abrams, Executive Producer of Alias answered, “The
key is having collaborative, smart writers who keep the room running.
Whether it’s the official show-runner or someone else saying, ‘We have to
get past this and keep going.’ It’s crucial to get to the act breaks and the
end quickly, so you can reverse and make it better. You need people who
share the same vision and are collaborative and mutually respectful.”
Abrams continued, “You want to make sure the show isn’t repetitive,
but you want to keep doing certain reveals. How do you keep doing that
so that the show isn’t contrived? A show like Alias can be preposterous
— how do you keep it real? As a viewer. I’d be furious if I invested in a
show that ultimately went nowhere.”
For Abrams, the best thing about working on a staff is “being in the
trenches with people you admire, respect, and who bring to the group
ideas that make you smile. That’s fantastic. When things are working, you
celebrate with them, and you despair with them when things don’t work.
Whether you’re celebrating or commiserating, you’re doing it together.”
A SLICE OF LIFE
For a well-run staff, let’s peek in on John Wells, who heads £R, The West
Wing, and many other shows.
Picture a long dark wood conference table dominating a conference room.
Ten chairs surround the table for four senior writers, four staff writers, one
full-time researcher, and Mr. Wells. At the back of the room, more chairs
and a few couches for full-time physicians on the staff, and production
personnel, as needed. All chairs face a monitor where dailies are screened.
I 7 e WRITING THE TV D R fl M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P R M D D y 6 L R S
The walls are hung with large whiteboards covered with ⊗ points and
story breakdowns for the 12 episodes to be completed for the season. On a
sideboard, colored markers list ideas for possible scenes under the headings of
Big, Serious, Humorous, and Other.
The staff begins laying out the season the first week in June. Working
as a group for six weeks, they come up with the entire season’s episodes
— ideas for them and specific storylines, and the group “pounds them
out.” That means the team figures out all the major turning points of the
stories, where the act breaks fall, and how many episodes an arc may
cover, structuring the episodes.
Then an individual writer is assigned to go off and do a story treatment.
(I discussed outlines and treatments in Chapter Four.) When that writer
returns, he gets notes from the staff. The writer does a revision. Another
notes session. Then he’s sent off to write the script. When the script comes
in, there’s a notes session. He does a second draft. If that works, the episode
is ready to film. In all, the process for one script takes about eight weeks.
On a visit to ER in an early season. Written By, the magazine of the
Writers Guild, described the ⊕ on a day a first draft has come in, so
this is the first notes session on the finished script. The writers file out of
their offices and head for the conference room, each holding a copy of
the script. Wells is in position at the head of the table, and the room is
full. Coffees are brought, but this staff gets right to business going page
by page through every ⊜ of the script.
In this episode, a teenager has cystic fibrosis and his mother is afraid her
son will die. The twist is that the son doesn’t want to be saved, which puts
Dr. Ross in an awkward position between mother, son, and his Hippocratic
oath. Someone asks about the kid’s girlfriend, another about Ross’ choice
whether or not to save the kid. A debate breaks out over whether the
writer is showing traits of Ross that the audience has already seen. While
the staff throws out suggestions, the writer is busy taking notes.
However, I recommend you use a tape recorder. This experienced writer
was able to get what he needed, but you might not. Three problems; First,
you’re not likely to be quick enough to catch every point, or distinguish
what’s worth noting among contradictory remarks. Second, under pres¬
sure your handwriting may be illegible. Third, by keeping your head in
your notepad, you’re absent from the discussion, and constantly behind.
Unless the show-runner objects, tape the session so you can pay atten¬
tion in the room, and deal with exactly what was said later, when you
I T ' 5 WHO Y D 0 KNOW: WORKING ON 5 I H r F 1 7 7
can concentrate. Of course
you’ll also be writing directly
on the script when sugges¬
tions relate to specific lines.
Back at the meeting, Wells says
the story is almost there, but
it’s missing a pivotal action
that will define the emotional
rhythm for the ⊟. That
propels a debate about another
character’s developing depres¬
sion. Then Wells cues a new
discussion about comic relief
scenes. And on the meeting
goes for four more hours as
they move from ⊕ to ⊕
to the end of the script.
This kind of meeting happens
again every Monday, Wednes¬
day and Friday afternoon. But
don’t misunderstand; it’s not
all about logistics and group-think. Writing on a staff still emanates from
each writer’s art. As Wells told Written By:
Writers have a responsibility, and it’s sort of a particular responsibility that
all artists share. You have to find a way to return yourself to that place from
which you work, and not allow it to ... float off of it into this pop-referential
world in which we’re only writing about or talking about things that we’ve
seen or know from television and movies.
I think that you, as a writer, you fight that and at whatever point you lose
it, you’re in big trouble. And your work suffers mightily from it, and then
you’ll have to find some way, if you’re going to write again, to get back to it.
And that’s beyond all the dealings with success and all of those things which
have their own problems, which you certainly don’t want to complain about
because you don’t want it to go away but, artistically, it has an impact on
what you’re doing. And that balance is very difficult to strike.
I look at writing as a craft and as a gift. As a craft you have to work on it
all of the time, and as a gift you have to protect it. And one of the things you
do to protect it is to make certain that your world doesn’t become too insular.
And, particularly, that your points of reference don’t become too insular.
W R I T I N 6 THE TV D R H M fl SERIES / P R M D 0 y 6 L R S
because then you find yourself writing exactly the same things because you
have nothing new to say about the subject. That’s when shows become unin¬
teresting to people, because they feel that they’ve already heard what you’ve
had to say, and they’re not interested in hearing it again. So there’s a constant
need to be looking. Not to see your name again on another show or anything
like that, but just creatively, to protect that place from which you write.
IHE Ml IHDDER
Jolin Wells stands at a pinnacle of success shared by very few creators of
hour series including Dick Wolf with his Law & Order brand; David E.
Kelly, who at one time ran The Practice, Ally McBeal, and Boston Public
at the same time; and Steven Bochco, who has consistently had a series on
the air longer than any other producer of drama, from Hill Street Blues
through NYPD Blue to many other shows in between.
Each show-runner was a writer first, and though the top rung involves as
much skill in management as writing, the entire television ladder is built
on writing titles. This differs from theatrical movies where creative power
resides in the director, and financiers can buy their way to a credit or even
an empire as film producers.
⊤ at the bottom, here’s every step:
1. FREELANCE WRITER
A freelancer is responsible only for writing a script and is not on the staff.
As an outside writer, you won’t participate in story meetings or screenings
or have an office at the show, or share in any of the inner workings of
the series. You might not even meet the staff except for the producer who
hires you and whoever supervises your episode.
But you do have an opportunity to demonstrate your skill and talent. This
teleplay — especially if you receive sole screen credit — can lead to a staff
offer on this series or open doors at other shows. If it wins any acclaim,
and a buzz begins about you, this one break could leverage a career. (See
Chapter Six for more about how to break in.)
Minimum compensation for a primetime network series under the Writers
Guild Basic Agreement is more than $30,000 for “Story plus Teleplay.”
(All figures are approximate because the W.G.A. schedule of minimums is
revised periodically.) Eor comparison, that’s around the same as a two-hour
theatrical screenplay for a movie whose budget is under $5 million. Since
IT'S WHO YOU KNOW: WORKIN6 ON SIHFF 1 7 9
networks license two runs of any episode, and successful series usually
re-run, you will soon receive approximately the same initial payment a
second time in residuals. Later, you’ll amass more residuals if your episode
re-runs in syndication, and that can continue for many years, though the
amount declines to pennies after a while. On a series that continues to
syndication, you might see well over $60,000 for a single hour you’ve
written as a ⊤ freelancer.
But not all freelancing is network, and not all contracts guarantee the full
ride. Network rates apply to ABC, CBS, NBC and FBC (Fox); HBO and
ShowTime also pay at network levels, as do some other cable channels.
But if you write for smaller cable outlets, prices dip to around $20,000 for
“Story plus Teleplay.” On cable, residuals are also calculated differently.
And you might not be allowed to write the episode to its finished draft.
Inexperienced writers are usually offered a “step” deal with “cutoffs.”
That means you are given a chance to write the outline (“story”), and if
it doesn’t work, or it seems that you would not be capable of a quality
teleplay, the deal goes no further — you are cut off. Someone else (often
a staff member) takes over the project and writes the script from your
outline, or even writes a new outline.
In those cases your credit will be arbitrated by the Writers Guild; you
might keep credit for the story if it remains essentially what you wrote; or
you might share credit on the story if more than 50% of what you wrote
is in the final script; or you might lose credit altogether if the new writer
had to start over and changed more than 50%. If someone else wrote the
script, of course, you’ll have no credit on the teleplay even if the under¬
lying story was yours.
The next cut-off comes after the first draft. If the head writer/show-runner
believes you failed to catch the voices of the characters, or didn’t convey the
sense of the show, or the writing is just not excellent (for example flat or expos¬
itory ⊘, unfocused scenes, lack of tension), the script will be given to a
staff writer or another freelancer. Just as happened with the “story by” credit,
the teleplay credit will be arbitrated and the second writer might be awarded
some or all the screen credit, depending on how much he changes.
In a step deal, you are paid separately for each stage. Using network rates,
the story alone is around $12,000, the first draft is around $20,000, and
the second draft is the balance of whatever has been negotiated. You’ll
notice this adds to more than the “story plus teleplay” contract, and that’s
intentional. It’s a kind of reward if a writer is asked to go to the next step
WRITING THE TV D R fl M fl SERIES / P H M DOGGERS
of the project (if “the option is picked up”) though the contract did not
guarantee continuing.
As with the “story plus teleplay” model, you’ll receive residuals for
network re-runs and syndication in proportion to what you’ve actually
done (when you’re cut off after the story, clearly you don’t get the full
residual for the episode).
If freelance assignments were abundant as they once were in television,
freelancing could be a fulfilling lifestyle for a writer because you could do
well on a few assignments a year, exploring various genres that interest
you, and have time to write features, novels, or have a personal life. But
today, most series are written by the staff.
Before I describe the staff ladder, here’s one more note on freelance assign¬
ments: Many are rewrites rather than original scripts. For example, an
agent sends your sample scripts to a producer who likes your writing and
invites you in. You go to the meeting and pitch episode ideas (stories),
but the producer might not be listening for something to buy. Instead he’s
hearing your insights into the show and what you bring to the creative
party. If you impress him, he may give you a story he has already devel¬
oped that needs to be re-thought from the outline up, or a teleplay that
needs to be rewritten though the story basically works, or even a pretty
good teleplay that just needs a “⊘ polish” (that means revising the
lines but not touching the structure). Say yes. Think of it as dues.
Back when I was freelancing, that happened at a western series called
Paradise. I didn’t know anything about the Northwest in the 1900s,
though I’d watched the show and liked the characters enough to generate
ideas. I had an agent and some produced credits by then, so setting up a
meeting wasn’t difficult, but I knew stories alone wouldn’t be enough. I
spent days researching the era to ferret tales from their world. Often, I’ve
discovered vignettes and unexpected characters from research, and I’ve
found that those gems of reality breathe life into storytelling. So armed
with well-honed pitches and smart on the history, I went in.
But one after another, the pitches fell, sometimes before I completed the
log line. Companies don’t want to risk hearing a story that’s at all similar
to anything in the works. Thus I came to the end of everything I’d brought
and gathered my notes to leave, when the producer reached behind him
and took a script off a shelf. It was a finished draft by a good writer who
hadn’t been able to render one of the guest cast convincingly. Since they
liked my writing and I’d brought fresh textures that fit their show (thanks
Il'i WHO YDU KNOW: WORKING ON 5TOFF I e I
to my research), the producer thought I’d understand the script’s poten¬
tial, and gave it to me to rewrite. Though I ultimately shared screen credit
with the original writer, my next episode for them was my own.
2. STAFF WRITER
A staff writer is sometimes called a “baby writer,” someone who’s never
been on a staff before. Think of it as a year of post-graduate education,
with big differences: unlike film school, you are paid instead of paying, the
work you do is measured by professional standards, it’s seen in the real
world, and you get no social promotions — you’re up or out by the end
of the season. For students from top film schools, being taught by credited
industry professionals is not a novelty. But for other recent grads, this
might be a first opportunity to be mentored by working writers.
Let your expectations be to learn, grow, form relationships, and write
every assignment exactly as needed. If you’re given one ⊕ to tighten,
don’t think you’ll grease any wheels by re-structuring the entire script,
or rewriting scenes on both sides unless the boss says okay. Depending
on the size of the staff, during a season you might be given one script to
write, especially if a senior writer is available to “supervise.” That means
the senior writer will advise you at every stage; but that person is also
standing by to write the script if you can’t. No one has time to wait while
you figure it out. If the staff is small, and you’re on top of your craft, you
might even write two episodes that are credited to you.
Staff writers receive regular salaries according to Writers Guild minimums.
A ⊤ staff writer on a primetime network show is paid around
$3,000 per week ($12,000 per month). But your contract might be limited
to 20 weeks (or less), with an “option” to renew you for the rest of the
season. Off network, some ⊤ salaries fall as low as $750 per week.
And if you write a script the fees will be credited against your salary, so
you won’t see additional payments until you go to the next step:
3. STORY EDITOR / EXECUTIVE STORY EDITOR
Once you get past freelancers and staff writers it’s tricky to guess what any job
title means on a particular show because those ranks may be honorary. You see,
as a writer advances in a series, his agent negotiates a new title every season.
“Story Editor” is for people who are beyond staff writer, but how far beyond
depends on the size of the staff and the show-runner’s style. For example, a
story editor may be a virtual beginner, or one of several seasoned writers on
a staff where everyone except the executive producer is a story editor, or the
puzzling title “executive story editor” may even indicate the head writer.
1 0 2 WRITING THE TV 0 R fl M fl S E R I E 5 / P H M DODGERS
In any case, story editor doesn’t mean someone who sits and edits stories
all day. Like all the other rungs on the ladder, it indicates a writer who
does all the stages of an episode from breaking stories, through outlines,
through first drafts, and re-writes. Generally, a story editor would expect
to write two original episodes in a season, and might be asked to polish or
re-⊘ scenes in other people’s scripts.
If you’re first trying to break in and your pitch meeting is scheduled with
a story editor, though, see if you can change to someone higher. A story
editor usually doesn’t have the power to hire anyone, and, worse, he
wouldn’t have much personal incentive to make your pitch sound usable
when he relays it to the show-runner. On the other hand, if the story
editor is a buddy who recommends you, that might have some weight, if
the boss trusts him. In a way, we’re back again to whom you know.
Story Editors are salaried employees on contract for a defined number of
weeks, just like staff writers. They’re paid more, though — in the vicinity
of $6,000 per week (depending on the length of their contracts), and that’s
boosted by payments for writing. The minimums under “freelancing” apply
to anyone above staff writer, so if you’re receiving approximately $24,000
per month as a salary, and you are also assigned an outline (“story”) for
an episode at the same time, you’d earn around $12,000 on top of the
salary, for a total of something like $36,000 that month.
Now, before you’re carried away with visions of paying off your student
loans, I warn you: You’ll only see a fraction. Your agent takes 10%,
federal, state and local taxes may add to 40% or more, guild dues are
around 3%, and you’ll have other mandatory reductions (disability, social
security, and so forth). If you have an attorney, he’ll take 5%, and if you
also have a manager (though you don’t need both an agent and a manager
at this level), that might be another 15%. All of that comes out of the
gross (off the top) before you see a dime. In fact, you won’t even see the
original check. That goes to your agency which takes out its share and
mails you an agency check. And remember, shows get cancelled; writers
are frequently out of work for months at a time. As they used to say on a
cop show, “be careful out there.”
4. PRODUCER
If you watch screen credits before or after a show, you’ll see lots of names
called producer or co-producer, but they don’t all do the same job. Some
are like line producers on theatrical movies, dealing with equipment,
schedules, budgets, crew personnel. Others are writers who have risen
IT'S WHO YDO KNOW: WORKING ON 5TRFF I 0 3
to the producer title but have nothing to do with physical production.
Their job is to write and re-write, much like a story editor. And some are
hybrids — mainly writers, though they interact with production (espe¬
cially casting, and in creative sessions with the director and editor) and
have a presence on the set.
Typically, producers are invested in forming the season and are respon¬
sible for the quality of the episodes, along with the show-runner. So if an
episode needs to shoot tomorrow and a script has last-minute problems
(no matter who wrote it), a producer may be the one up all night re¬
writing, though the credit would likely remain with the original writer.
Not taking screen credit is one of the courtesies that higher level staff
members traditionally give lower staffers and freelancers.
Producers on a set are also expected to re-write on the spot if a ⊕
isn’t working or the director or actors have a problem with a speech or
action. Sometimes this involves staying out with the crew past midnight in
the freezing rain. Offsetting the long hours is not only the satisfaction of
having influence over the shape of the series, but, frankly, good money.
Producers normally are not salaried in the same way as story editors. They
may have “points” (a partial ownership expressed as a percent of profits),
and producing fees for episodes that air. This results in a bookkeeping
oddity in which producers might work all summer without compensation
to put a show on the air in the fall, but then pull in hefty sums (possibly
in the $20,000 range) each week an episode airs.
At this level, the studio may begin looking at you to create an original
series while you continue up to:
5. SUPERVISING PRODUCER
The distance from story editor to producer to supervising producer is in
increments of responsibility, but all are writers. Some Supervising Producers
actually run the writing staff, or even virtually run the show, while others
spend the entire season writing and re-writing episodes like everyone else.
If you’re breaking in, you’re likely to pitch to someone with this title. Though
your deal will need approval from the executive producer, this office usually
has the power to give you an assignment and guide your script.
6. CREATIVE CONSULTANT
Now here’s a mystifying title. On theatrical features it might refer to
1 G 4 W R I T I N B THE TV D R R M H 5 E R I E 5 / P R M 0 0 U E L H 5
the person a movie is about, or the original writer who was totally re¬
written, a famous writer who polished the final draft, an expert specialist,
the financier’s nephew, or the director’s yoga teacher. On TV series it’s a
specific job, though the status depends on the situation. Normally, the title
goes to a highly regarded writer who comments on drafts of scripts but is
not expected to keep regular hours in the office. This person may or may
not actually write any episodes or attend meetings.
At one time I was working on a show where the neighboring bungalow
housed an action series that seemed to be staffed solely by four execu¬
tive producers. They were all good writers in their thirties who had been
writer-producers on other shows, now promoted to the top title. Writing
their series was no problem, but as for managing it, each of the four
was lost. Any visitor could quickly figure out what was going on — in
the shadows was a semi-retired “eminence gris” with the obscure title
“Creative Consultant.” His credits were so eminent indeed that he didn’t
want to be known for this little action show, and anyway all the executive
producer titles were taken. I think he educated the “executive producers”
as quickly as he could and got out of there, but when I knew that staff,
the Creative Consultant was actually the show-runner.
7. EXECUTIVE PRODUCER / SHOW-RUNNER
Executive Producers come in all sizes, and it’s not unusual for title promo¬
tions to create a glut at the top of a series that’s been around for years. Most
of those executive producers are (as you’ve guessed by now) simply writers.
But two other categories share this title, and you want to know who’s who
when you go to a show, especially if you’re making a first contact.
Some shows have two tracks at the very top — one is the executive
producer in charge of physical production: technology, crew, schedules,
location planning, construction, equipment, and so forth. The other exec¬
utive producer is the head writer, in charge of content, which means all
artistic aspects of creating and executing the scripts, including directing,
editing and casting. These two people work as a team, a useful division of
labor on some shows. Occasionally you’ll also see an Executive Producer
credit for a star with the clout to be called The Ultra-Grand Exalted
Poobah, but don’t expect that person in the writers’ room.
Among all the executive producers, only one is the show-runner. Often, that’s
the person who created the series from its original conception, and may have
written the pilot, though that’s not always the case. Eor example, on ER,
the pilot was written by ⊯ Chrichton, who continues to receive screen
IT'S WHO YOU KNOW; WORKING ON STRFF I 0 5
credit as an Executive Producer, though he doesn’t work at the show. A bevy
of other Executive Producer names also appear in the credits. But only one
— John Wells — makes the key decisions and runs every aspect of the show.
Steven Bochco and David Milch, two “guest speakers” in this book, are
creators and show-runners, though they interpret their roles slightly differ¬
ently. Mr. Bochco is clearly at the top of NYPD Blue and his other shows,
but no longer writes episodes, himself. Mr. Milch, on the other hand,
regards himself as a writer first, and writes or rewrites many of his show’s
episodes, including the pilot for Deadwood.
If I could bless your early career I’d say: Be part of a staff where the show-
runner is a great writer, because you’ll want to honor that experience in
your craft anywhere you work ever after.
Episodes of television series are created by writing staffs which collabo¬
rate under show-runners. Staffs may range from a few writer-producers to
many writers, divided into levels.
If you join a staff, you will write your own episodes as well as participate
in breaking stories and contributing to the work of other writers.
Freelance assignments are often audition scripts for writers who are not
on staff.
Staff writer is the entry level on a show, and is an opportunity to learn
from more experienced staff members.
Story editors are a step up the ladder. They re-write scripts and write their
own episodes.
Producers and supervising producers are senior writers who also may run
the writers’ room.
The executive producer title may refer to the creator of the show or the
show-runner, or might just be one of many senior writers on staff. It might
also be a production title. The show-runner is a writer at the top of the
ladder, and is in charge of all aspects of the series.
The traditional ladder has become flexible in certain venues which seek
young talent or different perspectives.
iPDILIGHI ON
Mi
BlOOGING 1GE
Hmi fnim Nim lisHB, Sm)Hmm
Don’t even begin your spec until you’ve passed four hurdles; (1) Read this
book (duh, you’re already here). (2) Watch a marathon of episodes of the
show you’re speculating until you’re so close you know how it smells. (3)
Read sample scripts from the show — as many as you can find — taking
note of the structure. And here’s the focus of this spotlight: (4) Troll the
show’s websites.
Every successful television series has an official site, usually sponsored
by its network. So just by googling the network you can make your way
to the name of the show. Alternately, if you google the show’s name,
the network site will probably be first. Occasionally you can download
episodes. For example, NBC was briefly streaming the entire past season
of Friday Night Lights to attract a larger audience after the network airing.
Add to that bulletin boards, fanzines, individual websites ranging from
the show’s creators to bit players, summaries of every episode, gossip,
biographies, and links to books and merchandise. On that last point, it’s
unlikely you’ll write a better episode while wearing a cap and t-shirt with
the show’s logo, but hey, whatever spins your wheels.
The location you want will have interviews with the writers, and that may
take some searching because most sites tend to feature the cast, assuming
(probably correctly) that fans are after the actors. The best writers’ sites
are interactive in which writers or show-runners respond to intelligent
questions about the writing process. Some are blogs or blog-like; that is,
they may be edited, but these seem to provide the most direct insight into
the personal experience of writing a particular episode or planning a story
arc. Interviews with the producers, especially by fellow writers ratber than
celebrity journalists, are nearly as helpful. In the very best, you not only
peek into a particular writers room, but also gain insight into the art and
craft of writing for television.
186
5 P 0 I I I E N I D N B L 0 G G I N 6 THE SHOWS I B 1
It would take a whole book to survey all the excellent internet resources,
but I’ll sample a few interesting ones for you. The producers of Heroes
run an illustrated comic-book style site called 9th Wonders, in addition to
the official NBC website. Early in the show’s first season, Damon Lindelof
(Executive Producer of Lost) interviewed Tim Kring, Executive Producer
of Heroes. Here is Lindelof’s question and Kring’s answer:
DL: “How does it feel to be leaving the relative safety of a self-contained
crime drama (Jordan finds body, Jordan solves murder) to enter the fun
world of serialization, in which many of the questions you pose will not
be answered for many, many episodes? You had always wanted to take
Jordan more in this direction, but were forced to abandon it by the network
powers that be. Is it sweet that the same network is now embracing stories
with much longer arcs?”
TK: “It’s very exciting to challenge myself in a new way after being
confined by a ‘closed-ended’ type of storytelling. Having had a long career
though. I’ve gotten used to trying to reinvent myself over and over again.
The strange thing is that I find myself coming full circle sometimes. When
I first started writing TV movies, I was known as the ‘horror’ guy, then
the ‘thriller’ guy, then the ‘teen comedy’ guy, etc. But in reality, having just
written a new episode of Heroes, the muscles used in facing a blank page
are remarkably similar no matter what genre you’re in. I still struggle over
crafting a ⊕ one line at a time. And I still look for truth and reality in
every emotion. Where it is really a different animal is in the writers’ room
— the breaking of the stories. It has to be much more diligently planned
out because every ⊜ of the story has a domino effect. Pulling one thread
can really make the whole house of cards come crashing down.
“It is certainly ‘interesting’ (read ‘sweet’) that the network is now embracing
the very type of storytelling that was off limits less than two years ago.”
In another interview on 9thWonders, writer-producer Jesse Alexander
expanded on the importance of character as the ultimate driver in story¬
telling and his delight in being able to expand across episodes:
“Having done serialized, genre-y shows before — on networks — I’m
quite familiar with all the ways they can go wrong. Tim Kring based
Heroes all around CHARACTER. It’s not about people waiting to be told
answers to a mystery. Or discovering how convoluted their world, and
family relationships, truly are. Heroes is all about ordinary people dealing
with something extraordinary that has happened to them — and figuring
WRITING THE TV D R fl M fl SERIES / P R M 0 0 y G L R S
out how to deal with it. We’re not stuck in an endless cycle of ⊗ reveals.
We’re telling thrilling character stories where our people are actually
making the ⊗. We will never run out of stories for this show. Not to say
that the show won’t change — certainly as more people develop abilities,
and more people learn of these abilities — the world our Heroes live in
will get ever more complex, and rich.”
Alexander went on to describe how the show is written: “Our process
at Heroes is very team oriented. Many shows have one writer cranking
out an episode in solitude. From my experiences on serialized shows — I
know that rarely works. And even when it does — you get very behind
in getting the work done. And when you get behind — and the deadlines
hammer you — story suffers. Our team of writers — or League of Fieroic
Scribblers, as I like to call them — finds strength in numbers.
“We all get together in the room, come up with story, and the scenes
for every episode — and then we all write scenes for that episode. This
enables us to get the scripts written in three days instead of three weeks.
And it means all of us know exactly what’s going on in every episode.
“There is always one writer who has their name on the script who is
in charge of bringing all the scenes together, and shepherding the script
through production. But every writer on the show has written bits of the
episode. It’s a much more honest approach to the way TV is written, and
is the only way to write a serialized show like Alias, Lost, or Heroes.
We’re all loving the process. Loving the work.”
For a different tone, check out The Crafty TV and Screenwriting Blog
which carries discussions with writers from various shows and aims at
information on how to write for screen. In the January 7, 2007 blog,
Bridget Carpenter, a writer on Friday Night Lights had this exchange:
Crafty TV: “FNL seems to have a more fluid structure than a traditional
hour drama. There’s a main or ‘A’ story, which belongs to Coach, but
instead of having a secondary B and a tertiary C story that take up the
rest of the episode, we get a weave of stories, where each of the characters
seem to have their own stories that run in parallel. Y’know, like in life, but
more interesting. Do you feel that’s true?”
Bridget Carpenter: “That is indeed true. In fact we never, or almost never,
talk about stories in terms of A/B/C. It always seems that we have an
innate ‘room understanding’ of the weight of each character’s story in each
distinct episode. We’ll pay more attention to Smash for a few episodes
S P 0 T L I 6 H I ON BLOGGING THE SHOWS I B 9
when we get into his taking steroids, the pressure that he’s feeling to excel,
his drive to make ‘the list’— and as a result, another character’s story for
that episode/episodes may recede temporarily. We do tend to go back to
Coach and his family more often, because he’s the character that links
pretty much everyone else in town.”
Crafty TV: “There’s usually a football game, ⊮ can come at the begin¬
ning of the episode or the end of one. Is there any sense of ‘the following
things have to happen in every episode’?”
Bridget Carpenter: “It also can come in the ⊦! That was something
that excited all of us from the ⊤ — that when we have a game,
it should serve the story of the episode — it doesn’t have to cap it. That
said, a football game has a natural energy and drive that often makes its
way into Acts 4 and 5.
“As we break episodes, we ask ourselves, is there a football game in this
episode? If there is, then we talk about when we want it to be and how it’s
helping to tell the stories of the characters within the game.”
Compared to Carpenter’s clear logic, want to sample some really candid
tales of life in the writing trenches? Then check out the Grey Matter website
by the writing staff of Grey’s Anatomy. Through blogs, each episode’s
writer reflects on the work
soon after it airs. Among all
the interesting revelations, I
found producer-writer Krista
Vernoff’s insights especially
valuable for you, as you
can see from her description
of writing her first episode
(which aired in May, 2005):
“Okay, here’s what I
remember: I remember that
we all met, this bedraggled
group of writers, for the most
part all coming from other
recently cancelled shows. I
myself had come from a sweet
little show called Wonderfalls
that Fox killed after airing
only three episodes.
I 9 9 W R I T I N 6 THE TV D R fl M fl 5 E R 1 E 5 / P R M D I) y 6 L H 5
“There was, of course, Shonda who had never been in a writer’s room
before and who lurked outside the door, brooding and disturbed like maybe
we were all vampires who would eat her soul if she stepped foot inside.
“And then there was me. WHO WOULD NOT SHUT UP.
“I swear to you, I got this amazing case of verbal diarrhea and I just KEPT
TALKING.
“It was the nerves. And the fact that Td been unemployed for four months
and had had way too much time on my hands. And the nerves. Did I
mention the nerves? And did I mention how Shonda, who had finally
made her way inside the room, kept looking at me like if I didn’t shut up
soon she was going to leave and never come back?
“And still, I KEPT TALKING...
“It was truly an appalling, humiliating, mortifying day in my career. Okay,
week. And so, when I got assigned Tf Tomorrow Never Comes,’ I felt like
I had a lot to prove. Like if the script didn’t make up for the compulsive
talking, I might not get to come back for season two. The ⊙ was
procrastination, which I know a thing or two about and we spent a week
talking about the stories in the writers room and then I went away to
write....
“Believe it or not, we actually do think about what kind of message we
put into the world. And the message I wanted to give was not, ‘Hey it’s
okay to put off going to see a doctor for two years ’cause it all turns out
alright in the end.’ George needed Annie to die so that he could actually
knock on Meredith’s door and at least try to tell her how he was feeling.
And I needed Annie to die so I could say all that stuff at the end about
seizing the day already. ’Cause it’s time. ’Cause life is short and you never
know when it’s up.”
Krista Vernoff certainly did survive to the second season, and she explained
how the show works in a blog in January, 2007:
“At the end of season two, we spent about five weeks discussing season
three — really planning out all the arcs for the whole season. Then we
went on a five-week hiatus and when we came back, we started breaking
story (which is what we call outlining episodes). As we break story,
we usually veer from what we had planned either a little or a whole,
whole lot. Because sometimes things that work in theory do not work in
5 P 0 I U 6 H 1 D N BLOGGING I H E 5 H D W 5 I 9 I
execution and sometimes things that we think are BRILLIANT by 7 pm
on a Friday seem absurd by 9 am on Monday. It’s not a perfect process,
it’s not a linear process, it’s a creative process. And that process sometimes
involves Shonda sitting up in bed at 3 am having had an epiphany that
completely destroys all of our plans but ultimately works out really well
for the season. Or sometimes, we read a script and think it isn’t working
and sit and try to brainstorm ways to make it work and we come up with
major story points that way.
“For example, last season, Izzie having given up a baby for adoption was
never discussed in the writers’ room. I read the script and felt like it was
missing a personal connection and I went to Shonda and the writer of the
episode and said ‘What if Izzie had a baby she gave up for adoption’ and
they liked it so we put it into the script and put the script out and the
writing staff was as surprised as [the actress] was because sometimes we
get so far behind and so tired we forget to even put out a memo saying,
hey, by the way, Izzie gave a baby up for adoption.
“In some ways, with some characters, it’s exactly as we planned. With others
it’s vastly different. But to give you an example of how and why things
change, I will tell you that when we planned the season we had not planned
to bring Izzie back to work nearly as soon as we did. But what happened is
this: We were watching the early episodes and what we found was that we
desperately missed having Izzie at the hospital, hanging with the interns. She
has such a unique spirit, such a unique energy, and the interns felt (to us) out
of balance without her. Tony and Joan and Zoanne [staff writers] wrote SIX
DRAFTS of an Izzie arc for episode five this year (‘Oh, the Guilt’) — and
none of them were working. And they are terrific writers and so what we
realized is that the reason the stories didn’t work, is because we were tired
of having Izzie out of the hospital, separate from her friends.
“So three days before that episode was set to shoot we had to completely
re-break and rewrite it. It’s the one where Izzie goes to the hospital to
clean out her locker and ends up seeing the Denny Duquette M and M
and then hangs out all day and sees Cristina doing a running whip stitch
and knows she wants to come back to work. Can you imagine how much
work it was to integrate Izzie into that episode that late in the game?
“Again, our writers are rock stars. ’Cause the thing is, when we pulled
that story thread, it wasn’t just that episode that unraveled. There was an
episode set to start prep three days later, there was an episode in script
stage, an episode in outline stage and an episode on the board in the
1 9 2 WRITING THE TV D fl fl M fl SERIES / R R M DOGGERS
writers’ room. ALL of those episodes were affected by that decision. It
was a MOUNTAIN of work — many, many 12, 13, 14-hour days. ⊮
was worth it because it was the right call.”
By now you realize how intense a staff commitment can be. Then imagine
the emotional commitment to take a personal story you love about a
dying father of one of the cast, planned for a single episode, and expand it
to two shows — re-writing under deadline pressure in a single day. Krista
Vernoff described her experience:
“I wrote this episode as one hour. But we shot it and it came in at 61
minutes and we only get 43 minutes per hour and so we were faced with
the choice of either cutting 18 minutes — which really would have just
destroyed the episode — or shooting four more days and making it a two-
parter. It hurt. It was painful and laborious and I was terrified that the
decision to go two hours would compromise the episode creatively and it
really was such a beautiful episode at 61 minutes.
“We took the story back the writer’s room. We break each episode as six
acts. So our task was to take six acts and make them twelve. We made
twelve columns on the dry erase boards and put ⊬ on ⊬ and
put what had been act six on act twelve. Then we put all the scenes we
had already shot on the board — and we talked about what we could add.
We knew we needed approximately 20 scenes and 20 pages of new mate¬
rial. We watched the 61-minute version — the whole staff — and then
talked about which storylines could use fleshing out.
“The other thing worth noting is that we had one day to re-break the scenes,
and then I had one day (the next day) to write them. We were here till 11
pm that night but by the time we went home we had added twenty new
scenes. Did I mention how much the writing staff rocks? I have to say, some
of the new scenes are some of my favorite scenes in the episode. Anyway, we
did what we had to do, and I think that in the end, we made it work.”
That quick tour of websites for Heroes, Friday Night Lights and Grey’s
Anatomy gives only a hint of the riches available for every show. But
now that you’re beguiled, I need to warn you: Visit, don’t live there. Your
writing must come from your experiences in actual life. Get up and get
away from the computer. Yes, your spec script for a show should be well-
informed by what they usually do. But if you’re only bringing what they
usually do, why do they need you? So, after you’ve immersed yourself in
the minds behind a show, put them aside. This is about you, and in the
next chapter you’ll move on to how you can break in.
I want to tell you a fairy tale that really happened, or so I’ve been told.
Once upon a time — actually the mid 1980s — a young w^oman fell in
love, not with a man but a television series whose main character seemed
just like her. Each week at 9 p.m. on the day of her show, she would sit on
her couch facing the screen, wouldn’t answer her phone or flip a channel.
Often, she found herself thinking about the motives and dilemmas of the
characters and talking to her friends about stories that might happen. She
noticed the speech patterns of each character, how conflicts were set up
and resolved, and how the plots were interwoven. And then she made the
leap: I could write this.
Gamely, she sat at her electric typewriter, knocked out a 60-page “spec” and
mailed it to the show. A “spec” is a speculated script — no one asked her
to write it, no one’s going to pay, ⊮ would be her ticket to ride. Except
that the script was returned unread with a form letter stating that they don’t
accept unsolicited manuscripts. But she was in love, so she tried again.
Script two — somewhat better than the first simply because it wasn’t her
first — went off to the show. And back it came. Now, this woman had
no film school degree, no relatives in the business, no screen credits, no
agent. And where she lived no one else had a clue how to break in either.
But she was in love.
So here came script three. By now she’d read books on screenwriting and
researched the series to find hints where the stories were heading. She
aimed this third script at what she thought was a gap in the series, and
she included a short cover letter that showed she had something unique.
So she sold this one, right?
193
I 9 4 W fl I T I N e THE TV D R fl M H 5 E R I E 5 / P R M D 0 U E L R 5
No. But this time the envelope held something amazing: a note if she was
ever in Los Angeles, come visit the office. You know how fast she bought
that air ticket.
Luck, fate, or curiosity, who knows, she managed to get an appointment.
And what did she have in her hands? Ah, you thought it was script four.
Nope, she got smart. She brought pitches, short summaries of 10 stories
that were perfect for the series — twice as many as writers normally bring
to pitch meetings. And she told those stories with wit and insight in five
minutes each. So she sold one!
Just kidding. She sold nothing but left with an armful of sample scripts, a
log of what they had in ⊧, and suggestions for areas of interest.
The producer said he’d be willing to hear her pitch again.
Next time, she finally heard the winning sentence, “have your represen¬
tatives call business affairs.” Does that mean she sold a script or was
invited onto the staff? No way. But she’d nabbed an assignment to write
an outline, which you know from the previous chapter is the first paid
writing step. The producer’s assistant showed her their “⊜ sheet” style,
and she managed a workable story that — hooray! — was sent to first
draft... to be written by someone else. She was too inexperienced to write,
though she would receive “story by” credit. With that, she re-located to
Los Angeles to watch closely as the episode developed.
And then she pitched another episode. It was good. They let her write the
first draft. It wasn’t so good. But she learned as the script was revised,
moving through the writing staff, production, and post-production. She
pitched, outlined, and wrote another episode — better. She made allies
among the writing team. And finally, when the series was renewed for the
next year, she was invited onto the staff.
And she rose through all the writing ranks, staff writer, story editor, producer,
supervising producer. And three years later, in the last season of the series, she
became the executive producer, running the show she loved. The End.
Within that fairy tale lie tips for breaking in, which I’ll detail below. In
fact, every writer who has broken into drama series can tell you a war
story, and you can take cues from each. Here’s mine:
Writing for screen never occurred to me, growing up in New York City,
but I’d always written — poetry, stories, plays, journalism — and by the
time I graduated from college at 20 I’d won some prizes and published
in small magazines. Mostly my adolescent journalism idealized about the
potentials of television if characters could reflect the diversity of our popu¬
lation, the true experiences of women, and the realities of urban life. (That
was before HBO and the other cable channels, not to mention the better
network shows, broke the old network mold and won awards for doing
just that.) Based on my articles, I was hired as program director for an
experimental public TV station in Los Angeles. So I arrived, with one
suitcase and a winter coat that would be useless, 3,000 miles away from
anyone I knew. A few months later, the station went broke.
But rd met people and someone tipped me that MCA-Universal was
searching for a young woman in feature film ⊧ because they’d
never had a woman executive. In my three years at MCA, I saw predictable
names always attached to movies while scripts by less known writers (even
ones with agents) never made it to the executive floors, and even when a
movie was greenlit, years passed from script to exhibition, during which
time the original writer was replaced (and his replacement was replaced).
But a few floors down in the television department and the units who made
series, scripts were on the air in months, the writer’s credit intact.
So I set out for a TV career. By this time I’d written three spec features,
having learned the craft from the pros. My first job was an uncredited
⊘ polish on a TV movie, a typical beginner’s job. That happens
when an established writer has completed all contracted drafts, and a
new writer revises lines though her name would not appear on screen. In
this case the young characters didn’t sound real, so I spent two weeks re¬
writing for a flat fee.
That job got me my first agent because the producer needed to negotiate
with someone, so he made a few referrals. Hey, if a producer wants to hire
you that’s a sure shot to an agent. I went with one who was ⊤, like
me, and grew with the agency for years.
Now I was ready to try writing episodes. But how? I found a fresh angle:
Watching episodes of Trapper John, M.D., I felt one of the main cast was
being ignored. I knew Madge Sinclair was a wonderful actress, having
once seen her on stage, and I took a chance the series might be obligated
to her after years on the air. So I asked my agent to arrange a pitch. As a
kid with no experience, I didn’t have a clue about A, B, C stories or the
four-act structure, so I had to be taught by the producer. But the episode
was made. Madge brought my lines to life. And later that year she won an
Emmy for her performance in the first episode I ever wrote.
1 9 G WRITING THE TV 0 R fl M R SERIES / P R M 0 0 U G L R S
I didn’t stay with this series. I freelanced at several others, and it was a
while before I was on a staff, but that first break was a kick.
It all comes down to these rules:
WRITE WHAT YOU LOVE.
This is not self-indulgence; it’s the way to write well. What separates
you from everyone else trying to break in? For our fairy-tale heroine,
passionate identification with the main character in the series, under¬
standing the struggles and feelings that ⊛ would face, gave her
stories the force of reality. You might find your break-in angle from expe¬
rience in a field like medicine, law, or police work, absorption in a genre
like sci fi, or even in your family background. Your passion will lead you
to authentic stories.
So when you choose a show to spec, pick one you watch often. Sounds
obvious, but I’ve encountered would-be writers who think they’re playing
the system by speculating shows they would never watch, thinking they’re
easy to break into. Doesn’t happen that way. First, all shows want to hire
the most gifted writers they can attract, not reluctant pragmatists. Second,
never write down — it hurts you as an artist and damages your reputa¬
tion. Third, it’s not going to succeed. It’s obvious if you don’t really have
a feel for the show. And finally, what you are creating in a spec is a show¬
piece, not an actual episode, and this brings me to the next point:
DON'T SPEC THE SERIES YOU PLAN TO PITCH.
Okay, that’s opposite the lesson in the fairy tale. A few series will read
specs for their own show, but most won’t, and you don’t want them to.
Think about it — the producers know their show’s minefields. Outsiders
wouldn’t know the producer is going to scream if he hears one more pitch
about the dog, or another swimming pool corpse, or a romance between
two actors who (you couldn’t know) had a fight yesterday. But producers
on a different show will be able to see your script for the great writing it is
without the encumbrances. So go ahead and speculate for a series you know
well — then develop pitches for a different show within the same genre,
or of a comparable quality. For example, at one time the producers of ER
would read a script from NYPD Blue to judge a writer’s ability.
And ability is what you’re demonstrating — talent plus skill. So choose
to study and write for the highest quality series that interests you. Look
for one that’s been on long enough to be recognized and maybe won
HOW TO B R E n K IN 1 9 7
some writing awards. (You can find a list of award-winning series through
the Writers Guild of America and the Academy of Television Arts and
Sciences, both listed among resources at the end of the book.) You’ll
sharpen your screenwriting; and the show’s multi-faceted characters may
pump up your ⊘.
Quality of writing is the immutable rule. And that brings me back to our
fairy tale, and the next principle:
ASK THE RIGHT QUESTIONS ABOUT A SERIES.
Notice what the woman considered when she first tried the show: the
motives and dilemmas of the characters, stories that might happen to
them, speech patterns of each character, how conflicts were set up and
resolved and how the plots were interwoven. All these can be discovered
in the episodes. Once you delve into the underlying motives by asking why
the characters behave as they do, you’ll uncover the roots of future stories
and also subtext that will color the way you write these characters. It is
this more subtle layer of characterization that producers want to see in a
writing sample because it suggests a source for further writing, as opposed
to flat characters or “types” pushed around to serve a ⊗.
What stories might happen to the characters? Don’t answer by using ⊗
lines already set in the show. Those story arcs will be complete before your
script is done, and big changes that turn the series are made by executive
decision, not by freelancers. Instead, ask what urges or issues come from
the characters at a point of stasis — that is, when they behave normally,
rather than guessing how the ⊚ will evolve over the year. Or come
up with an angle of your own for the main cast. For example, if you spec¬
ulate a Six Feet Under (an HBO series set in a funeral home) and you’re
a carpenter, how about a problem for one of the main cast involving how
coffins are built.
Ideally, every character’s ⊘ is specific and expresses background,
education, attitude, intelligence, and personality. Listen well, and ask
yourself how Tony Soprano’s choices of words and his phrasing differs
from Dr. Melfi’s on The Sopranos, or how President Bartlet’s differs from
CJ’s on The West Wing. A critical hurdle for an outside writer is to catch
the “voices.” You may begin with the actors, but don’t let that fool you.
The differences are on the page.
Conflicts and ⊗ structures are somewhat determined by the hour format
and, in network television, by act breaks, as you saw in Chapter Three,
WHITING THE TV 0 R fl M fl SERIES / P H M D 0 U G L H S
but don’t let that hang you up. Do what it takes to keep readers turning
pages. Production companies and agents will read only a few pages and if
they’re not hooked, the script gets tossed. The tension has to stay high and
the reader needs to be surprised often — not by a gimmick but by a turn
in the story that is true to these people. Be unpredictable within the world
of the show. For example, in a story about breast cancer, give the disease
to a guy because men can get it, too. Be fresh, creative, unexpected.
You see, it’s all about good writing, the same qualities you’d apply to
writing a feature or other dramas. That’s not to say you shouldn’t ask
about the shows you’re speculating or pitching. Do your research. Unlike
our woman of the 1980s, you have the Internet. Most series have Web
sites, and many have fan sites, too. The official site will assure you basics
like spelling the characters’ names and a history of the series. Some include
statements by the producers with hints to their taste or sources of inspira¬
tion. Watch out for the fan sites because they might not be accurate, but
the best include summaries, and some list every episode that’s been aired,
which will save you from writing or pitching what’s been done.
The right questions are always about stories and characters, not special
effects, costumes, budgets, casting, gossip or marketing gimmicks, so stay
focused.
HAVE THE RIGHT TOOLS.
Our lady of the 1980s toiled on an electric typewriter; no one does that any
more. For your computer you must have — must have — a professional
screenwriting program. The Writers Computer Store (in the resource list)
will advise you of your options; if in doubt, “Final Draft” is popular. Each
series adopts specific software which their writers must use, but for specu¬
lating, any program that creates a standard screenplay form is fine. As you
can see in the sample in Chapter Three, the hour drama looks the same
as a feature screenplay (though sitcoms are formatted differently). To be
considered at all, your scripts must appear perfect and professional.
HAVE REPRESENTATION.
Easier said than done. Our heroine was out in the cold, sending scripts
that were returned unread until her extreme tenacity caught a producer’s
attention. You could try that, ⊮ took her years in easier times, and she
got lucky. So let’s talk about agents — why you need them, how to get
one, and what to do if you can’t.
TV series give the illusion of being so accessible, even friendly, that fans
sometimes imagine they can join in. From the outside, series writing seems
easier than it is, and television appears less formidable than features, so
shows would be inundated with amateur scripts if they didn’t have filters.
Also, production companies won’t risk a lawsuit from a stranger who
might claim a show stole his story. That’s why companies rarely read
scripts that arrive “over the transom” (unsolicited and unrepresented).
You need an agent because that’s who gets you read, knows where the jobs
are, and puts you in the room. Without, it’s difficult to know which show
is looking for new writers (or at least, willing to consider one). The agency
also negotiates your deal, generates your contract, and collects your pay,
deducting its 10%.
While feature film companies may buy original screenplays, television runs
on assignments. The agent may know of an opportunity on a staff, or
that an open episode is looking for a writer with a particular background,
viewpoint or style. The agent sends over samples from several clients who
meet the criteria. After reading the samples, the producer may invite you in
for a meeting. Or, if you have an idea for an episode, the agent messengers
over your writing samples, and if the producer likes your work enough, he
might invite you in to pitch.
But a lot of good those systems do you if you don’t have an agent anyway.
Here’s what you need in your writing portfolio before you begin your
agent search:
• At least one polished full-length original screenplay that showcases your
distinct ⊞.
• At least one hour-long TV drama script in a genre similar to your target.
• At least one more TV drama in a different “franchise” that demonstrates
another tone.
• Original stories ready to pitch to series.
Now you’re ready to begin. A long list of agents is available from the
Hollywood Directory (see resources) and the Writers Guild. The Guild aster¬
isks the ones willing to consider new writers but don’t take those asterisks
too seriously. Some “open” agencies turn out to be filled; others who didn’t
offer may nevertheless be interested in a client with something they want.
How do you make your way through all those names? Try to identify
those who represent the kind of writing you do. Some agencies aim mainly
at Hollywood features, indie productions, or sitcoms, so check if their
2 0 0 WRITING THE TV D R fl M fl SERIES / P H M DOGGERS
client list includes writers with credits in television drama. You’ll also have
to choose between the “packaging” and “boutique” agencies. Big pack¬
aging agencies supply all the talent — actors, directors, producers, as well
as writers. That can be a powerful asset if you’re included in a package
led by experienced show-runners. On the other hand, a boutique will give
you the personal attention a new writer needs.
Begin on the phone. If you don’t have personal referrals, cold call each likely
agency. Don’t ask for an agent but focus on whoever answers or one of the
assistants and say you’re looking for representation for writing dramatic
TV series. You may extract the names of agents who specialize in this or the
new guy in the agency who’s building his list. Get the names spelled. Out of
100 calls, 10 may be interested. Okay, you only need one.
Next step is a one-page letter to a specific agent emphasizing your
strengths — screenwriting awards, a film school degree, well-reviewed
plays, published fiction or journalism. If you don’t have those, hook the
reader with some specialty like having crime stories to tell from your years
as a cop. Move on quickly to what’s in your portfolio, for example spec
scripts for House and Friday Night Lights, plus an original pilot and a
feature. Your aim is to be invited to send one script.
Now comes the wait. You can probably call once every couple of weeks
to remind the assistant; just don’t bug people. Meanwhile, your letter is at
other agencies you’ve contacted, and in six to eight weeks someone may
ask to see your writing.
Even though you’re aiming at episodic series, the first script the agent may
want is an original. This is to separate your talent from the style of the
series you’re speculating. Later, when the agent is ready to judge your skill
in series writing, the spec episodes will be useful.
Let’s say you’ve jumped through those hoops and you’re meeting with
agents. Good agents are looking for clients with the talent and persever¬
ance to grow, as interested in where you’ll be in five years as whether they
can place you on a staff this season. In fact, an agent who only wants a
quick sale is likely to drop you if you don’t make him money in the first
few months. You deserve better.
You’re building a relationship, you hope, so you want someone who
understands your goals, can guide you to a show where you start building
a career, and has the clout to push open that door. The choice is personal
H D W ID B H E R K IN
— the hungry young agent, the empathetic one, or the seasoned vet with
a long client list? High class problems, of course.
What if you don’t get a bite? Next stop is managers. The main difference
is agencies are regulated by the state and have agreements with the guilds
which define how much they can charge and their responsibilities. Managers
are unregulated, so watch out. Professional management companies func¬
tion very much like agencies except they charge 15% of your earnings or
more, compared with 10%. Justifying the bigger bite, managers may cover
more than agents, sometimes all of an artist’s business life.
For you, a manager may be available when agents are out of reach, and
they can open most of the same doors. They’re not listed with the guilds,
but you’ll find managers in the creative directory. So take the same steps:
call, send a letter, send a script, and interview as with an agent.
If you zero-out with managers too, entertainment attorneys sometimes
have connections to producers and may pass along your work or make an
introduction. If you retain an attorney for this, the customary charge is
5% of all your screen work in lieu of an hourly rate.
Still too tough? Here are some end-runs around the representation problem.
• Get a job on the show. Any job. Production assistant or secretary are
fine. The point isn’t a career in photo-copying but relationships with the
writers. Once they know you, they won’t be able to avoid reading your
work. And when you’re around the series, you learn the inside tips.
• Go to film school for a screenwriting degree. The best schools promote
their graduating students to the industry, and friends you meet there
help each other.
• Write for an actor. Many actors have small production companies to
find them material. You might get into a show by writing a compelling
role for one of the less-served cast who will fight for your script. You’ll
need to figure how to get the script through to him or her, ⊮’s not
impossible.
• Start with new and alternative outlets. Apart from network and national
cable primetime programming, dramatic writing jobs may be available
off-network, in niche cable outlets, in off-hours, on public television,
and on the Internet. Those markets don’t tend to work with agents
anyway (not enough money), so you apply directly to the producers
where your enthusiasm may be welcome.
2 11 2 WRITING THE TV D R fl M fl S E R I E 5 / P R M D D G 6 L R 5
BE IN LOS ANGELES.
Our heroine flew to an L.A. motel the minute she thought a producer
would see her. She was lucky he kept the appointment. But a show-runner
juggles delivery deadlines, last minute re-writes, and emergencies on the
set, so appointments are re-scheduled once, twice, three times. How long
can you sit in that motel?
Some people re-locate and work a day-job while poring over the “trades.”
You know Hollywood is crowded with would-be writers, actors, and
directors who followed a dream and were still working as waiters — liter¬
ally and metaphorically — a decade later. But as a writer you can work
wherever you are, so don’t leave home until your portfolio is strong, you
have a bite, or you’re coming to film school. The woman in our tale
moved after her first assignment. Then she glued herself to the production,
and that led to her next assignment.
Whether you move sooner or later, you do need to live in L.A. to write
series television. A few mainstream American shows are now based in
other cities — New York, Miami, Vancouver, Toronto. But most staffs are
on the studio lots. As you read in Chapter Three, TV writers work collab-
oratively, so there’s no way to avoid the palm trees.
He 5ECIIET Of JlICCEii
My use students sometimes ask how likely it is they’ll make it — what are
their chances of breaking in? The first year or two out of school are usually
rough, but I’ve discovered which ones succeed five years later. They’re not
necessarily the most gifted, the brightest or the best connected, though
talent, smarts, and relationships do help. No, the ones who succeed have
a single trait in common: they didn’t give up.
Tales from my recent MFA graduates reflect 21st-century realities both
better and worse than I’d experienced a decade earlier. Worse is that free¬
lance assignments are tighter. Now shows depend on staff writers for most
episodes, so freelance gigs are really auditions for staff.
But so much is better, more open. Okay, each show has fewer freelance
episodes, but the number of series has multiplied in a world with 400
channels (counting cable) which do original programming. When I was
first breaking in, I had to pitch to guys (yes, guys only), an old guard who
held a lid on traditional network formats and the kinds of ⊗-driven
HOW ID D R E R K IN 2 0 3
stories that had proved reliable. Too many of their shows seemed alike
— mind-numbing for a creative person. Some of them are still around, but
in an era when shows compete with the Internet and new venues to attract
viewers, those show-runners are becoming dinosaurs.
Among new trends:
• Shows that prefer non-episodic samples (features or even stage plays) in
an effort to identify original talent, along with TV specs;
• Potentials to pilot original series or use a spec pilot as a sample (see
Chapter Two);
• Hybrid forms including dramedy, reality/drama, and music/drama;
• On cable, no more four-act structure; five acts in syndication;
• Blends of techniques — animation with live action, for example;
• Content that includes non-traditional lifestyles, cutting-edge issues,
honest relationships, gutsy language, and fantasy;
• Computer-assisted imagery which enables locations and effects formerly
impossible.
In Chapter Seven, you’ll find re-prints of two articles I published in the Los
Angeles Times and an update. The first article interviewed MFA students
from my USC episodic drama class six months after they graduated. I
interviewed them again three years later. And the update asks where they
are six years after graduation. These are today’s stories from the trenches
of breaking in.
Take Brian and Kelly. On graduating, they each had feature screenplays
written in school, and episodes for ER, NYPD Blue, and X-Files. But no
agent signed them immediately, and both took day-jobs. Brian hooked up
with a young independent director and worked without pay for a year
writing But I’m A Cheerleader, a satire about a girl sent to a camp to
“cure” her of being a lesbian, whereupon she falls in love with another
girl. The indie film was made on a shoestring but garnered Brian notice in
Variety as a writer to watch. Meanwhile, Kelly was hired to write a script
for a French actress.
A year later, they were both still at day jobs, frustrated with director-
driven features, trying to break into TV, and they decided to team up.
Cheerleader got them in a door at the WB, an off-network that hires
young writers with limited credits. Here, they pitched an original series
— not an episode — and actually got an assignment to write the pilot
(something unimaginable in the past). It wasn’t picked up. But by now the
2 0 4 WRITING T H [ TV D R fl M fl 5 E R 1 E 5 / P R M D 0 U 6 L R 5
WB execs knew the team and recommended them to Smallville, on their
network. From here, their story is traditional — they wrote an episode,
joined the staff, and now they’ve risen within the show. They tell me
they’re happy.
So, in a way, we’ve come full circle from our fairy tale. It is all possible.
You can break in.
To break into writing for television, you first need a solid understanding
of how TV drama series differs from other kinds of writing.
Second, choose one high-quality show to learn well. Fully grasp the
“voices” of all characters, as well as the kinds of stories the show tells
and its structure.
Once you’ve learned your target show, write a spec script, but do not
speculate an episode of the same show you intend to pitch. You will prob¬
ably need spec scripts from several shows in different genres.
Once your spec script is polished, try to get an agent or manager who
will expose your work to producers. Ideally, you’ll get meetings after your
scripts are read.
Working on a show in any capacity, including writer’s assistant, researcher,
or secretary, may help you make contacts who will read your script.
It takes years for most new writers to break in, and the key is to generate
many scripts that keep you growing as a writer - and don’t give up.
GOEH SPEnKER;
DHMDN llNDELDE
Damon Lindelof is co-creator and executive producer of Lost. Previously,
he produced and wrote other series including Crossing Jordan.
PD: Lost crosses usual genres — it’s not sci-fi, not action adventure, not a
family drama, not a character-driven drama following somebody’s quest,
and yet it’s all those things. As one of the co-creators, from the ⊤
what was it you set out to do?
DL: Lost is a product of not really having enough time to think about
something. At the end of the day it couldn’t have been developed in any
other way but the way it was developed, in sort of a glorious chaos.
Normally the pilot season starts in the summer when studios buy ideas
from writers, and then the writers go off and write outlines and then
drafts and usually before Christmas the networks and studios get those
drafts and they come back after Christmas and in January the networks
start announcing the pickups of their shows.
But three years ago at the end of January when all the pilots were already
being picked up, Lloyd Braun, President of ABC, said he wanted to do a
show about people stranded on an island. JJ Abrams and I said indepen¬
dently (because we hadn’t met yet), well, there’s no place for the series to
go. It’s not a dramatic show. How do you do Survivor, the drama? That’s
a game show. They run obstacle courses and vote each other off the island.
The drama there stems from the fact that every week someone is not
going to be back next week. It’s not about survival. Every once in a while
someone will try to start a fire or catch a fish but the audience doesn’t
want to see people catching fish. Still, Lloyd was passionate about it. He
said please do your best.
PD: Why do you suppose he was so passionate?
205
W R I r I N 0 THE TV D fl fl M fl SERIES / P R M D 0 y G L R S
DL: He had a vision; he wanted something different. At the time ABC
was struggling with launching new series. They had crapped out of new
dramas for several years; they were the number four network. And the
police dramas, or medical dramas or legal dramas — you get those every
year. But this was a different setting. The showman in him said there was
nothing like this on television.
This liberated us to create what we wanted. I called JJ, though I thought
it was the worst idea ever — I didn’t think it was a TV show. But I said to
him if you had to do it as a series it would require certain elements such as
a massive cast, and it would have to be a huge ensemble piece and you’d
have to know nothing about anybody. Maybe you could dramatize their
past by having flashbacks of them prior to the crash. So you’d be doing
two shows — one that took place after the crash and another show that
took place before the crash. We didn’t know how we would make that
work. And I said it has to be really weird. It has to be like an episode of
The Twilight Zone every week. There have to be twists and turns and an
external source of ⊖ that would send the characters into ⊖
with each other.
It needed to be a mystery show. It is that franchise: every week the audi¬
ence watching has to think “I’m watching this show because I require the
answer to mysteries.” What is that plane that Kate is playing with? Why
does she want that case so bad? What is the secret Locke whispered to
Walt? Those are answers on a shorter term basis. But the answer to the
fundamental questions like “What is that thing moving the trees; what is
it about this island that drew them here?” will be in play perennially. It
mirrors our daily lives because we all live our lives in this sort of iiber-
mystery: What does it all mean? What am I supposed to do? If Lost was
going to be anything, it needed this idea of mystery. It turned out JJ had
come up with the same ideas before we met.
I saw this show ⊨ up with the guy lying in the ⊦ of the jungle
and this dog comes up to him. The guy’s got a scratch on his face and we
have no idea what’s happening. The guy sits up and reaches into his pocket
and pulls out a little bottle of alcohol, and then he hears a noise. The dog
runs off and he follows the dog, and we come upon the crash with this
guy. This is much different from a show where you’re on a plane with 15
different people and then there’s turbulence. Here, you know nothing. You
don’t know who he is and suddenly he starts to help people. You realize
he’s got some medical expertise. So you, the audience, are playing along at
U E S I 5 P E H K E R : 0 R M Q N L I N D E L R F 2 0 7
home. You’re figuring
it out. That ended up
being shot for shot what
the pilot ⊨ was.
We didn’t start actu¬
ally writing until three
or four weeks later. We
generated an outline
based on the founda¬
tion of let’s populate
this island with really
awesome characters
who have pasts they
don’t want to talk about
and make it a redemp¬
tion metaphor. The characters all made mistakes off the island and now
the island gives them the opportunity to evolve as people. In the early
episodes viewers thought it was literally purgatory; that ⊙ was so rich:
I was a bad person, now I’m trying to be a better person. Characters were
saying things like “Why can’t we all start over?” Also the viewing audi¬
ence is so savvy that they’re looking for twists. At the time Lost premiered
much of the Zeitgeist was The Sixth Sense: it was a popular fictional device
that characters didn’t know they were dead. We certainly played with that
expectation. Then when we started killing off characters it disproved that
theory because you can’t be deader than dead.
The show was a happy accident based on fear. The fear was: It shouldn’t
be a TV show, so any idea you have can be justified. When one of the
guys who had been in a wheelchair could walk around again, there was
concern whether that was a sci-fi idea. Is it too weird? Our response to the
Powers-That-Be was we have to do stuff like this; it’s the only way we can
maintain it as a TV show. It was tremendously liberating.
PD: That’s interesting that the ⊨ of the pilot came to you fully
imagined. Is that how you work as a writer?
DL: Ideas often come to me as an image system — that picture of a guy
waking up in the ⊦ of nowhere. At first the title of the series was
“Nowhere,” so I had the idea of being nowhere and coming at it through
a single character who was going to portal us in, who we’d begun to care
about. And then we’d gradually introduce other characters through him.
WRITING THE TV 0 R R M fi 5 E H I E 5 / P H M D 0 U G L R $
PD: Now you and Carlton Cuse have been running the show together,
and JJ hasn’t been around since the ⊤ of season one. You also
have a staff of writers. How do you work with the writers?
DL: I can illustrate with season three. We finished writing the finale of
season two at the very end of April last year. We had already made some
changes in our staff so we had our season-three writers raring to go.
Without a single day off, we finished season two and immediately started
working on season three.
We do this thing we call mini-camp with all the writers — around nine
people altogether. For three weeks we sit and talk blue sky — here are ideas
we have for the next season. Here are the extant mysteries we’re going to
solve. Some of the ideas are vague at first but they become mandates, like
we’re going to discover how Locke got in the wheelchair. We’ve known
how, but the question was when are we going to tell that story? When is
the right time emotionally for him? We also were inheriting a lot of story
from the end of season two so we knew the first sweep was going to deal
with Jack, Kate and Sawyer in captivity with the Others. Conversations
had been going on for years but now we were going to tell those stories:
who are the Others, what do they want, what is their relationship to the
island, why do they want Jack, Kate and Sawyer?
For the first week it’s all very story driven. By the end of episode six we
will know this is why they kidnapped Jack because they want him to
perform this surgery. And then Jack is going to pull an end-around and
free Kate and Sawyer. What do we need to do within those six episodes
to get to that point? What’s going to make Jack make that decision? Oh,
I know: What if he sees Kate and Sawyer sleep together? That should
happen in episode six, and that will trigger... So all that sort of stuff is
starting to come together and then you say here’s what’s going to happen
in the finale. We know what’s going to happen but the question is when
are we going to reveal it to the audience and how?
So by the end of mini-camp we have our design. We were in Hawaii but
we worked every day. We’d wake up, go into a conference room, work
for four hours and jet over to the set and hang out with the actors and
look at the locations on Oahu that we hadn’t used yet that we want to
write to. It was an incredibly intense week, and then we worked for two
more weeks with the writers while we filmed the two-hour finale, and then
it was on the air. At that point in the season you’re right up against it.
Once we locked the finale, that was the end of that three-week period and
6 II E S I S P E H K E R : D R M 0 N L I N D E L 0 E
everybody took a month off, which was the first time I’d had off since the
inception of the pilot.
When we came back in July we were ready to hit the ground running. The
entire writing staff sits in the room and we talk about each story ⊜ by
⊜. We talk through what the scenes are and occasionally even rough
out ⊘. During this period anybody in the room can say “Hey what
if we did this?” Ultimately I’m the one who says I love it or let’s move on.
But the stories are gang-broken.
Then once we’re done finishing the story, which is a three or four-day
process, putting it up on the board, the writer of that episode peels off and
begins to generate the outline. Then the room starts on the next episode.
We do the episodes one at a time. There are procedural shows that can
do several at a time. But because of the serialized nature of our show,
everyone needs to know exactly what preceded their episode.
For me, since I’m the producer, I don’t get to excuse myself and go write
the script. I write the scripts nocturnally, and then I’m back in the room
the next day. What happens is by the time you get to the fifth episode, you
have five episodes in the pipeline. At any one time, one episode is being
broken, one is being outlined, one is being scripted, one is being shot.
PD: For anyone who is not on your staff it sounds impossible to spec an
episode of Lost.
DL: Unless they come up with a concept episode. We do have episodes
that are not beholden to over-arcing serialization. One example was the
Rose and Bernard episode, where we learn about their past. Now that
story you could spec out. But the B story in that episode was questioning
Henry down in the hatch. Someone outside the show wouldn’t know
about that.
PD: If someone wanted to spec an episode of Lost anyway just as a sample,
what would you advise them to look for?
DL: Lost is actually a simple equation that is difficult to execute. The
hardest part is figuring out what is happening on the island in any week.
Most weeks we start with something like: we have an emotional story to
tell about Kate. Once you know that story, you go and break out the flash¬
backs. You figure out how that ends. That’s sort of the easy part because
you’re not restricted by any of the normal boundaries of storytelling. You
can have EXTERIOR: HOTEL ROOM, and any of the things you can
2 1 0 W R I T I N 6 I H t TV D R fi M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P R M D D U 6 E R S
do on any other kind of show. The tricky part is what to do with that on
this island. If you know the flashback is that Kate made this choice in the
flashback, what can be happening on the island to thematically illuminate
that again?
If you want to write a spec Lost, pick a character that you like the most,
tell a story about them from any point in their lives that really solidifies a
trait of theirs. Then design a story on the island that gives them a choice.
If they made the wrong choice in the past, now they make the right choice.
Sometimes the metaphor seems vague until it’s right in your face and you
go, oh, that’s what this was about.
llF[ flFIER Film FCHOOL;
[flUFIOimiir IflLEF RND
Mm
FlOHIEE
For the past decade I’ve followed one group of M.F.A. students who
happened to take my class in writing episodic TV drama. I witnessed
their early (and continuing!) struggles as their careers blossomed. First
interviewed for The Los Angeles Times just months after they received
their graduate degrees from the School of Cinema-Television at USC, I
interviewed them again for The Times three years later, and finally four
years after that for this book.
Together, the three sessions form case histories that hint at what to expect
as you begin to write for television. Most of all, I hope their stories give
you hope: When the industry appears impenetrable, they remind you that
you’re not alone. When the doors nudge open, they tell you what they did
to walk through. And if they succeeded, maybe you can, too!
m \.[m
Of '9?
(The following article appeared in The Los Angeles Times, Feb. 8, 1998)
Reunion. Six months after graduating from USC’s School of Cinema-TV,
eight students from my advanced television writing seminar meet again in
our former classroom. Reunions are bittersweet. Now we gather at night,
the comforting predictability of school assignments and the company of
hundreds of others taking the plunge into the industry with them, all
211
2 1 2 W R I T I N 6 THE TV D R fl M fl SERIES / P H M D 0 U E I H S
gone. A few are thrilled to have professional assignments. Others, still
mailing samples they wrote in school, trying to get agents, claim they’re
not jealous. Right.
I’ve taught students like them for a decade, holding out the prospect that
hour-long episodic drama in shows like ER, NYPD Blue, Homicide, Law
& Order, X-Files, and others offer opportunities for the most incisive,
challenging writing they’ll find anywhere. Now the industry is dotted with
stars of previous classes — not just mine but from other USC professors.
It’s a hot time for new TV writers.
The graduates gathered tonight understand the power they’d wield in
television and feel responsible for what they give the public, quick to put
down gender and ethnic stereotypes and relationships that don’t seem
real. It’s an attitude not typical of earlier generations. Credit for it goes
to the trailblazing series they’ve studied, and to living in a multi-cultural
America very different from what was reflected in earlier decades of TV.
Drew Landis and Julia Rosen became writing partners at USC Brought to
the U.S. from South Korea by his minister father during the Amerasian
adoptions in the 1970s, Drew worked in politics in Washington before
entering the Graduate Screenwriting Program. Julia grew up in Los Angeles
and made films that won festival competitions. Together, they speculated
scripts for ER, NYPD Blue, Early Edition, Party of Five, Frasier, a drama
pilot, and two features before graduating. That portfolio got them signed
by The Artists Agency, a TV-movie deal, and a possible position on a new
series. Credit all those sample scripts, and their certainty about televi¬
sion.
Drew: “An agent asked at one of our first meetings why we want to
write for television. It’s because when I watch I love the connection to the
continuing characters, and having experienced that, I want to translate it
every week.”
Julia: “For me, it’s that feature films nowadays are comedies or spectacles.
But you go anywhere in the United States and everybody is watching ER
and they know all about those characters. The way to reach people and
talk about real subjects and get to people’s hearts is television.”
Wendy West wanted to write TV since she was a child. “I found an old
diary, pink, with bunnies. I was excited to see what I did as a child. But
when I opened it, I found pages and pages of ‘Today on Alice, Flo said kiss
my grits’ — whatever was on TV each day.”
LIFE R F I E R FILM S C R 0 0 I 2 I 3
Her X-Files spec won her a staff writer position on an upcoming WB
series, ⊮ hasn’t been as she’d imagined. “I feel a little left out. My first
script was not exactly what the show is. Working in the real world, you
need to be a chameleon. That doesn’t mean losing your ⊞ but you have
to adapt to the style of the show you’re writing. So much of film school
is spent trying to find your ⊞ so it seems counterintuitive to think you
should lose it somewhat. But only somewhat. I guess we’re waiting to see
the stamp of a Wendy West script, but you can bet on someone falling in
love or at least tripping over her own heart.”
Still hopeful, Wendy tells the group, “A good day is like our class for eight
hours. One of the reasons I went into television is I like collaboration,
knowing people are there to help you get through the outline. You’re not
alone the way you are with a feature.”
That yearning for community echoes among them, all single, in their 20s.
Gib Wallis wrote and performed plays off Broadway and on London’s fringe
before film school. Now he works as an actor while looking for a writing
agent. He chose television because: “With features if they want somebody
to rewrite you, how much of the original vision is left? With a TV show,
even if you’re the youngest and you’re re-written, they have to see you at
lunch. You have writers working with writers so they understand.”
That’s his dream. ⊮’s a hard fit to the past months. “Right before
graduation I sent out 50 query letters and to my surprise I got six meet¬
ings and I thought Td hit the jackpot with people wanting to read my
ER sample. They said give us several weeks. But every time I called I
got this response of now is not a good time. Finally they wanted to hear
back from me in July; only the TV staffing season ended in June. I told
them I’d hoped they would have read it in time, and they said, oh, we’re
glad we got your script but there’s no way we’re going to read it because
we’re staffing right now. We’re trying to get jobs for the people we already
signed. I felt there was this little window and I wasn’t able to get into it
quite soon enough.”
Eric Trueheart graduated in English Literature from Harvard, but is equally
frustrated since finishing his MFA. He wrote five spec scripts but “It’s extraor¬
dinarily difficult to get people to read. I’ve had a lot of time to think about
what it means to be a writer.” While at USC, Eric was mentored by Glen
Morgan and James Wong, then on X-Files, now Executive Producers on
Millennium. “They were great letting me look in on the process. But they’re
so busy they haven’t read anything even though I wrote a Millennium.”
2 I 4 WRITING THE TV 0 R fl M H 5 E R I E 5 / P fl M D D U G L fl 5
With television hard to crack, some graduates accepted jobs rewriting
features, like Kelly Souders. Having grown up on a ranch in Missouri,
she wrote fiction before entering the Graduate Screenwriting Program,
where her feature thesis won highest honors. Kelly discovered “Without
the episodic TV class the feature would have been a real struggle. I had to
take someone else’s character in someone else’s story and put the structure
together, and I learned that in episodic.”
She’s emphatic: “The quality is in television. I can’t tell you how many
times I came out of a theater and said I’m never going to a movie again.
These big action things have no characters. It’s like marketing people put
the film together. And then you watch NYPD Blue and ER and it’s the best
writing I’ve seen.”
They long for believable characters and more of the spectrum of people
in the real world. Wendy describes Homicide as “amazing” in its depth of
internal issues among African American characters. “The scenes between
Andre Braugher and James Earl Jones were riveting — how Pembleton
was conflicted over covering up to protect a black hero.” Other students
point to episodes on ER when Benton coped with the illness of his mother
— how refreshing to see African American women written with dignity.
They’re aware the main cast includes Latinos in Law & Order and Chicago
Hope, and Asian and Native Americans on Star Trek:Voyager.
Michelle Takahashi, now analyzing scripts for a production company,
wrote an X-Files spec that sprang from a Japanese Shinto ritual. “I tried
X-Files because they do cross-cultural stories like the Guatamalan vampire
goat, and the Chinese occult. I tried the same subject for features ⊮’s a
hard sell. Agents told me not to do a mainstream feature where the main
character is a minority. But on X-Files Mulder and Scully take you into
different cultures.”
Wendy agrees, “We have role models in TV we don’t have in features.
It’s great to see women doctors sticking their hands into someone’s body
to save his life. It’s not just this season. Believable women go back to
Cagney and Lacey who had real relationships — they weren’t just cops,
or sex objects. Back then it was a big deal that women wrote that series.
Probably they had to fight for it to be truthful.”
Not everybody is into the fight, at least, not right away. I see Brian
Peterson around campus, no longer in jeans, wearing a tie. He took a job
at the School until he has more scripts. “After graduating, you really have
LIFE It F T [ R FILM 5 C H 0 0 L 2 1 5
to figure out who you are again.” Heads around the table nod, under¬
standing as Brian continues, “We were all zombies in the last month of
school. We all felt so much was riding on our feature thesis, and we were
supposed to start off the block with a big bang. I sent out my query letters
and went home to Montana and regrouped. It turned out my feature
wasn’t useful for television. A couple of agents called me back and said I
loved your ER, it was great. And I said so? And they said so? So, where
are your other TV scripts?”
It’s easier to return to the ideals of writing than cope with waiting. They
retell moments from shows we studied like Dr. Greene losing a patient
in childbirth on ER, a controversial issue in The Practice, gutsy innova¬
tions on EZ Streets, true relationships on My So Called Life. Michelle
admires “series that cut askew, subversive like the episodes of X-Files and
Millenium that laugh at themselves.” Gib likes “shows to experiment with
the ⊚. Some of that is in Ally McBeal, interweaving her fantasies
in a way that’s provocative.” Brian wants “a world I can see come to life
like Twin Peaks that created its own world.”
Revisiting friends. Shared goals. Tonight it’s easier to get fired up about
politicians who want to censor their art than deal with getting assignments
that compromise it.
Eric argues, “In one of Bob Dole’s anti-TV campaigns, he complained
about NYPD Blue, saying the last good cop show was Dragnet. Dragnet
was a cartoon. If people want cartoonish versions of morality spelled
out, they’re welcome to it. But the realistic dramas are supremely moral
because they’re grappling with issues everyone is trying to grapple with,
struggling to come up with moral answers to them.”
Kelly: “Television gives people a clear moral choice: the on and off button.
I don’t watch certain shows, ⊮ doesn’t mean they shouldn’t be on. There
are shows I could never be interested in because they don’t have enough
honest reality. To me, that dishonesty is as damaging as violence.”
Julia: “NYPD Blue and ER challenge people in ways people who watch
shows like Touched by an Angel wouldn’t want to be challenged. Those
people know they’re not going to leave with a sick feeling. They want the
issues simpler, but for emotions to still be there. There’s room for that.”
Eric challenges Kelly: “If you were offered a job, could you write for one
of those “angel” shows?”
2 1 G WRITING THE TV 0 R fl M R 5 E R I E 5 / P H M D 0 U G L R 5
Left to rigTit;
Kelly Souders,
Brian Peterson
Left to riglit:
Julia Swift,
Andrew Landis,
Kelly Souders
Left to riglit:
Wendy West,
Gib Wallis,
Julia Swift
Left to right;
Eric Trueheart,
Wendy West,
Gib Wallis,
Julia Swift
LIFE AFTER FILM SCHOOL 2 1 7
Kelly: “I don’t think so. I’d be pushing away my experience. Though they
say ‘never say no’ to your first job.”
Ah, jobs. That punctures the debate. I lead the conversation back to
school. Looking back, what counts?
Drew: “Me and Julia finding each other.”
Julia: “We’re able to have an extended version of our class all the time.
You learn the questions. Do you have the act breaks? Where do your
moments come in? Whose ⊕ is this? What’s the arc of your char¬
acter? You go through them, one by one, and make changes until wow,
this works. Before, I wrote from my heart but had no idea how to make
it powerful. When we graduated, we turned to each other and said
‘Thank God.’”
Kelly: “For the rest of your life when you’re sitting at a computer you’ll
be hearing your teachers in your head. You hope what they’re saying to
you will help you work.”
The eight former students turn to me as if I have one more lesson, some
secret I know. I do know that five years from now those who refuse to give
up will have “made it,” as generations before them did. They’ll do it by
writing unpaid script after script until the craft comes naturally, by learning
nuts and bolts on shows they’ll one day leave off their resumes, and finally
by not losing sight of the great writing they studied on television today.
Beyond craft, they’ve come of age in a “golden era” of television dramas.
They’ll stand on the shoulders of those giants.
Yflllh IDE IV iiyOENh OF '9?
m[[ [M:
(The following article appeared in The Los Angeles Times, July 5, 2000)
Three years after graduating, they meet again. They had been MFA students
in my class, a few months out of school and mostly out of work, when The
Times first ran a feature on them. Since then, six other classes have come
and gone through my course in writing episodic television drama at the USC
School of Cinema-Television, each with its own angst and triumphs.
Now seven of the former students meet in my backyard on a sunny after¬
noon to talk about what happens when Variety (the entertainment trade
daily) names you one of “The Ten Writers to Watch,” and exactly how
2 I G WRITING THE TV D R fl M fl SERIES / P R M D 0 U G L R S
much unemployment pays; how exhilarated you feel rising to co-producer
of a TV series, and how you find out your show is cancelled; how to avoid
letting producers know you’re pregnant, and being single with no time to
date; how a chance meeting can luck into a break, and yet old friends are
what keeps you going.
While they were in school, I predicted that any of them who wanted a
TV writing career enough, who didn’t give up, would have it within a few
years. Now, let’s see.
Brian Peterson went home to Montana after graduating then returned to a
job in the Dean’s Office by day, while sending out his scripts by night. The
next fall, director Jaime Babbit, who had an idea for a movie. But I’m a
Cheerleader, made an offer. Some offer: write a screenplay for no pay.
But Peterson sparked to the subject: “a cheerleader whose parents send
her off to rehab because they suspect she’s a lesbian, but she discovers she
really is gay, and at rehab she falls in love.”
Peterson says, “I spent a whole year re-writing it for nothing, and then it
finally got shot. It was the kind of thing you dream about: you see these hot
pink signs that say “Cheerleader,” and you say, ‘Oh my God, that’s mine.’”
While the film was screening at festivals. Variety named Peterson one of
the “Ten Writers to Watch.” Despite that, “every time Variety mentioned
Cheerleader they said Jaime wrote and directed it. People who don’t know
better have this love affair with writer-directors.”
Peterson concluded, “After that experience, Kelly and I started pitching
pilots for TV.”
That’s Kelly Souders, whose thesis script, “My Slut Mom,” was optioned
by a producer soon after we last met. But Souders asserts, “Every meeting
I had on it was about toning it down. I’m not going to tone it down.”
For about a year she co-wrote another feature with an actress, but that
hasn’t been produced either. So she was also looking towards TV, and
they remembered an idea they’d had at USC, and their agent got them
meetings.
“Everybody we’ve met in television has been fantastic, 180 degrees from
features,” Souders says. The team sold their pilot, and “we’d love to be
in the situation to hire everybody at the table,” Souders offers, to a round
of cheers.
LIFE H F I E H FILM 5 C H D D L 2 I 9
In the time from their 20s to pushing-30, from being outsiders to working
in the industry, Souders says, “You start getting protective of what kind
of work you want to do. It’s easier on your self image,” to which Peterson
quips, “But not always on your checkbook.”
Everyone groans with understanding, even Wendy West, who was the
first on a series staff. West laughs that she was also first to discover that
unemployment pays $230 per week, when that series was cancelled. But a
producer she’d met there invited her onto yet another show... which didn’t
make it on the air either.
“The way we found out was we opened up the paper and it said we were
being suspended. Meanwhile, our sets were being built. In fact, there was
a delivery of lumber that day.”
But she had made more relationships. So, when one of the producers
moved on to the Law & Order spinoff. Special Victims Unit, he brought
West along. Now in her second year on the show, she was promoted to
story editor, and this coming year she will be a co-producer.
West: “It’s wonderful, exciting, fantastic. [Executive Producer] Dick Wolf
is so smart and talented; it’s not an accident he is where he is. His notes
catch exactly the little things you know don’t really work, but you tell
yourself, well, nobody will pick up on this. Then he sticks his finger in it,
and you say, all right, all right.”
West looks warmly over at Andrew Landis and Julia Rosen. “Last year
Drew and Julia were on the lot so it was more fun because we could get
lunch.”
Landis and Rosen teamed up before they left school, and armed with
sample scripts for five different series, they garnered an agent before
anyone else, and they won contests. Rosen observes, “Producers need
something that says other people think you’re good.”
They nabbed their first real job on Hercules, “by going in and pitching
something outrageous,” Rosen says. Landis adds, “They have people on
staff who are going to write the show, so you can only bring something
that’s yours.”
Between Hercules and the staff of the short-lived series D.C., Rosen
married Andrew Swift, a producer on True Hollywood Stories, and
became pregnant.
2 2 D W R I r I N 6 THE TV D R fl M fl 5 E fl I E S / P R M D 0 U G I R T
The only one of the group who is not single, Rosen confides, “I hid my
pregnancy while we were working on D.C. People think if you have a
newborn you’re not going to work, and that’s not true for me. In order
to be a good mother I have to be a happy mother.” As it happened, D.C.
was cancelled before the baby was born, and the team found themselves
out of work, anyway.
Everyone at the table has done temp work while waiting for the next
writing job, but Peterson warns, “People don’t see you as a sexy writer if
you have a day job.”
Michelle Takahashi admits she works for a construction company. Then
she smiles, “Next month everybody is getting laid off.” While she was in
school she thought about a feature set in Japan, and at her job, she says,
“I think about it almost every day.” She saved her money, and now she’ll
finally have time to write the script, she says.
Takahashi’s three years are typical of hopeful writers, if such a thing as
“typical” exists in a volatile industry.
On the other extreme, Eric Trueheart, far from his Harvard literature
degree, is writing an animated feature, Guy Futomaki: Ninja Temp,
which he sold to Eox. “It’s the story of a trained Ninja. His clan has been
destroyed and he’s forced to come to America where he can only survive
by doing temp work.”
Trueheart’s route to the sale was “Hollywood,” in the worst sense. “I had
a so-called agent who wouldn’t sign me, but he mentioned “Guy” to a
studio executive. So we go over, and there’s this 24-year-old ⊧
guy in an expensive shirt. I told him, you know, it’s animated. He said,
‘We’re thinking live action.’ I said, ‘We’re thinking like The Simpsons,
Beavis and Butthead" He didn’t get it, but he started pitching it around
town without us, when he didn’t have any rights to it.”
Trueheart shakes his head, “It was classic Hollywood. It’s not that these
guys are evil. They’re just driven and oblivious.”
Ultimately, Trueheart made his deal with Fox, but his success on the fringe
began doing web work at the company run by Steve Oedekerk (writer of
mainstream comedies like Nutty Professor II). There, Trueheart made
a friend who occasionally asked him to write for their Internet shows.
Trueheart worked on Thumb Wars and Thumbtanic, for which he also
appeared as a thumb.
LIFE AFTER FILM 5 C H D 0 L 2 2 I
With an edgy reputation growing, he landed a staff writing job on
Nickelodeon’s new animated series, Invader Zim, which Trueheart
describes as “torqued,” while “Guy” is developed.
“It’s the first time getting a steady paycheck for writing. It’s a weird
experience.”
Now immersed in Hollywood, they speak of staying in touch with what’s
real. Landis and Peterson are training to run in the Chicago Marathon to
benefit Aids Project Los Angeles. And Landis, who was brought to the
U.S. from South Korea during the Amerasian adoptions of the 1970s,
wishes he saw more faces on television who look like the friends everyone
here has, people of diverse backgrounds.
So, it turns out, three years after graduating, my prediction came true:
those who went for it succeeded in ⊤ their careers. Now they ask:
what will they do with their new-found status; what really matters?
ilVlN YlHRi HFIER GRRRUHIING
The class re-convened in my backyard in August, 2004. Kelly Souders had
gotten married. Julia Swift showed us photos of her “baby,” now grown
into a beautiful little boy about to enter kindergarten. Now everyone
present was drawing at least a partial income from writing and several had
been able to quit their day jobs. We began by passing the tape recorder
around the table, each writer bringing us up to date since we last met. As
enthusiastic as I’d known them as students, though wiser, they offer their
experiences to you:
ERIC TRUEHEART
Three years ago I was going into animation, which was a great education
working on a staff. I worked with talented people that the network didn’t
really seem to like and they spent a lot of time telling us how to write jokes
and stuff. There were only three writers on the whole show including me
and a comic book writer who didn’t know much about structure but was
really funny. Actually, I learned a lot about comedy sitting on that show.
You spend time crafting a joke but sometimes a scream can just be really
funny. Then it was cancelled so I was fired.
I started working on features with a friend from USC but people don’t
know if they can produce it. I’ve also been working on my own comedy
2 2 2 WRITING THE TV D R fl M fl S E R I E 5 / P H M D 0 U G L R S
Left to riglit:
Kelly Souders,
Brian Peterson,
Pam Douglas
Kelly Souders
(at head of table)
Left to right:
Gib Wallis,
Julia Swift,
Andrew Landis,
Kelly Souders
LIFE AFTER FILM 5 C H 0 D L 2 2 3
show out of a warehouse that’s been the pick of the week in L.A. Weekly
— The Ministry of Unknown Science — and we do these elaborate shows
that are part-live, part-video.
We were repped by CAA [Creative Artists Agency] for about a year but
we discovered they had certain ideas how to promote our show that were
different from the way we had envisioned it. So in the process we learned
that what an agent can really do is step in at the last minute and help,
especially when you have someone who repped Survivor and they’re
repping our sketch comedy show. At first, the agent didn’t want to invite
network people to our show, but one of our friends had connections, and
now we’re speaking to both Sci-Fi Channel and Spike Network who want
to do something with us.
Then there’s just the constant therapy and self-evaluation that all creative
people must do. I thought I was going to graduate and be all set, trained
to do this stuff. I’ve been trained — it’s like dental school. I still think
hour long drama is great but I haven’t had the chance to do anything
in it yet. And I’ve had a lot of trouble finding how I sell myself in the
industry, ⊮’s been like Zen. Now I’m in on another animated show.
I’ve sort of fallen into animation ⊮ doesn’t pay nearly so well and
it’s not Guild.
[In other words, the production company is not a signatory to the WGA
Minimum Basic Agreement, which means that writers have no protections
on payments or working conditions and do not receive Guild benefits such
as health and pension.]
WENDY WEST
I’ve been working in hour long drama, thanks to Pam, God bless her. I
worked on some interesting shows that got cancelled, a medical show
and a crime show. One was called Gideon’s Crossing and the other. Line
of Fire. I never wrote crime in your class but that seems to be what I do.
If there’s not a dead body I feel like something’s missing now. I think it’s
interesting because you encouraged us to write from our heart and the
business is just about writing what sells. I’m working on this Law &
Order on the beach; it’s like Lethal Weapon. It takes place in Hawaii. I
knew this guy from last year’s show and I got a meeting on the current
show and it was between me and another person and he helped me get it.
So I owe him — a lot.
2 2 4 WRITING THE TV D R fl M fl SERIES / P R M D 0 U G L R S
GIB WALLIS
Around three years ago the Mark Taper Forum was doing this thing, and
I got tapped to do artistic response to the events of 9/11.1 wrote a one-act
play and that was cool because I always loved theater. It was a 65-seat
theater and there were people sitting in the aisle. Then enough people
began requesting short plays and longer plays for different things. Now
I’m working on a farce with original songs and it’ll be up in October.
Since I still have a day job, it’s been an interesting challenge to keep being
inspired. When you’re in film school, you have great people around you
to talk about story and character but when you go out, there are a lot of
people who want to talk about selling things or setting things up. I’m a
member of a playwrights’ group called Playwrights Six and, for me, to
meet with people regularly to talk about the art — that was my favorite
part of film school.
JULIA SWIFT AND ANDREW (DREW) LANDIS
JULIA
We’ve been together for six years, longer than that, eight years? We did
a pilot with Regency and the WB based on a weird part of my life and
that was very interesting and fun. When you write a pilot you have the
flexibility and the salary, which is great. But writing my own life was very
difficult because I had this strange life growing up that I’ve always tried to
hide. We were at a meet-and-greet at CBS and the executive pushed me to
[talk about more ideas]. So I told him about growing up in a mob family,
half in Vegas and half in L.A.
The story was about the year I went to college. My father turned my
grandfather into the FBI and took off. I watch The Sopranos and it pisses
me off because Tony is tough at work and nice at home, which is just
wrong. It was interesting because we would be on the phone with network
executives and the characters name is Maia, but they would call her Julia.
They brought on Carlton Cuse as a producer and we loved him, and he
said to Drew, “Your assignment is to go home and get Julia drunk and ask
her questions about her family.” And we did! We got pages of stories that
would blow you away. We gave it to Regency, and they loved the stories.
⊮ ended up being too “complicated.” The emotions weren’t all on the
surface and Carlton and the Studio wanted it to be more complicated,
and the network wanted it more on the surface. So that was interesting,
learning whose advice to take.
Then, later, our executive, who became the head of drama at UPN, was
LIFE fl f I E R FILM SCHOOL 2 2 5
interested in bringing the project back. But Regency said no, they wouldn’t
make enough money from UPN. You have to be very aware what studio
you’re at when you’re doing a pilot because certain studios only work
with certain networks. The UPN executive made a deal with us to have a
blind pilot and then she left, and then the president left, so the develop¬
ment season passed and they brought in some people who didn’t make the
deal with us.
Before that, we’d written a play, and we made a deal to make that into a
TV movie, which never happened, but we learned to be very careful about
what rights to give up. So now we’re pitching a new pilot, more drama,
and we have a studio that wants to go out with us, but the executive called
us and he might be moving, so who knows? As long as you keep those
relationships you can move with them, ⊮’s difficult.
PAM
What makes your partnership work?
DREW
Being able to communicate honestly five or 10 times a day. It’s better than
working alone, to get someone else’s eyes to see what I don’t.
JULIA
It’s also really nice to have another pair of ears after talking to executives
and trying to figure out what they mean.
DREW
Having a strong partnership puts everything in perspective.
BRIAN PETERSON AND KELLY SOUDERS
KELLY
Three years ago was right before Smallville so I was writing grants for the
Science Center and I didn’t have a car.
BRIAN
We’d partnered up and were working on these pilots. I’d taken a job
transcribing EcoChallenge tapes. Then in one year we got a pilot with Fox
and were on staff on Smallville. It was interesting because which do you
take — the pilot or the staff — and we really debated that. Luckily, we
got an exclusion [on the Smallville contract which would have required
exclusivity] partly because we hadn’t turned in the pilot yet. It’s kind of
been a two- year second draft.
2 2 E WRITING IRE TV D R fl M fl SERIES / P R M D D y G L R S
PAM
So even after your writing credit on But I’m a Cheerleader you didn’t get
work?
BRIAN
No. That was an unfortunate career move because I needed to go into
meetings with ideas. I got a couple of rewrites but then we had to start
over in TV. It’s great, though, because we learned as much in working in
TV as we learned in film school.
KELLY
In your class we really learned to write a ⊕, the shape of it, when to
come in, and that we use everyday.
BRIAN
The work-shopping we did in class, learning what notes to take and what
not to take, was great.
PAM
Day to day, what do you do on Smallville}
KELLY
Right now, we’re rewriting other writers, dealing with production, writing
our own scripts, dealing with the scheduling. People in the room tend to
either be really good at story or really good at character. Lor us, we make
a great team, ⊮’s funny because our strengths and weaknesses are
similar. Lor us, the story is always a weak point and, over the last three
years on the show, we’ve really learned a lot.
BRIAN
Being on a staff we have such a great group of mentors, you have a built-
in support group, we know about each other’s lives.
KELLY
It makes a big difference because we landed on a show where the people
above us are really smart. We’d been working together for years but on
our own time so it was more relaxed and we weren’t depending on each
other to pay our bills. Suddenly to have that switch in 24 hours was a
struggle, our first couple of days on that show. The end of the first day,
Brian was ready to lop off my head and, at the end of the second, I was
ready to lop off his. Now, after work we’ll go to dinner or to a play so
we’re able to separate the friendship from the work relationship.
life n f n r film 5 c h o o i 2 2 7
BRIAN
It’s like marriage, deciding everyday you’ll be together.
KELLY
⊮ s an arranged marriage because we never really agreed to be part¬
ners. We met for one pitch together and then we were suddenly there.
PAM
A question for the entire table: If you could talk to your own young self
at use, what advice would you give?
ERIC
Get a day job because it takes forever to earn a living, but there will be
breaks. A job will be a financial and psychological safety net. It gives you
that freedom to figure out what you’re doing without having your life
depend on it.
KELLY
Wendy gave me a magnet, “If you’re going through hell, keep going.” Lor
me, I think this is a longevity race. If you can keep at it and hang in there,
then do it.
BRIAN
Have samples in a lot of different genres because people like to read
different shows. Keep updating, keep going. Just as soon as someone says
there’s an opportunity, you can’t wait a week or two weeks, you have to
give them a script.
DREW
You really have to network a lot more than we’re comfortable with. You
really have to force yourself when you’re done with your writing to meet
people. Your agent can only do so much, and a lot of the jobs come from
what you hear.
ERIC
Get a job on a show as an assistant. Just get in that environment, there
are so many stories you hear of a writer’s assistant pitching an idea and
the show using it.
KELLY
There are two freelance episodes we have a year and we give them to the
assistants.
2 2 B W R I T I N B THE TV B R R M R 5 E R I E 5 / P R M B 0 B 6 L R 5
GIB
At film school we heard a lot about people not selling pilots unless they
have been on a staff. Wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong. I have several
friends who’ve sold pilots, even if they haven’t gotten them on the air. I
had a pilot idea and I’ve been pitching it and just finished the script, but
I’ve heard of people getting more success with pilots than with staff jobs.
PAM
You’re right. Seven or eight years ago when you were in school it was rare
for people to sell pilots if they had never worked on a show. In the inter¬
vening years, ⊤ writers have gotten interest in their pilots even if
they’ve never had any television experience, and producers are willing to
read pilots as samples. That’s part of how the business is changing.
WENDY
My advice: Keep writing. The business has changed; they want to know
what’s out of the box. It wasn’t that way when we were getting out of
school. I got a job off a short story — it’s crazy. Everyone on Six Feet
Under — Alan Ball hired almost no one with television experience. Also,
it’s important to be in a writing group. I think those people who didn’t
stay in a group just fell out of writing. It’s really hard to get yourself
pumped up, but having a place where you have to produce every week or
two weeks is valuable.
JULIA
We were taught in school to write what we love and we came out thinking
we’re going to write what we love but have some action in there. You can
write a genre that’s not your dream genre but infuse that with you and the
marketplace will respond because it has that bit of whatever makes you
different.
DREW
[I recommend] the contest route. If you win a contest, it gives them a
reason to meet with you.
ERIC
I’m sure everyone’s scoping out the new young thing. But the agencies are
very conscious of money and reliable people so, sure, you’ve got a 23-year-
old with the hot pilot, but if it’s not picked up then they’re dead. There’s
always the network mentality that they want the next hot thing but they
always need the people who have the experience to get the job done.
I I F E I) F I [ R FILM 5 C H 0 0 L 2 2 9
JULIA
Because of vertical integration, the networks own the studios and
the studios own the networks, so small places with creative executive
producers are gone. The networks have their ⊧ component so
you have very few people choosing shows. I think that financial model has
to change, and the only way it’s going to change is if people get tired of
seeing the same thing over and over.
WENDY
One of the things that I’m constantly reminded of is that this town is run
on passion, which is great. But when we send out scripts, people are so
afraid that they’re going to choose something that they’ll get fired over, or
that the advertisers are going to pull the show. You have to wind through
so many obstacles until you get to the final piece and then that’s pushed
to the ⊦ ground.
JULIA
I think that as this generation raised on HBO grows, then something has
to change because they won’t want to go back to that ⊦ ground.
BRIAN
As you mature into the industry, you realize the venues that are appro¬
priate for your work. Every major studio wants their Emmys and Oscars
so they will support producers like Alan Ball. So there is a chance to be an
artist, but you really have to focus on it.
imi
JPEflKER:
Ron Moore
Ron Moore is Creator and Executive Producer of Battlestar Galactica,
and was a producer-writer on Roswell, Carnivale, and Star Trek: The
Next Generation.
PD: rd like to bring you back to the “big bang” of this show because you
not only run it, you created it. What was going on for you creatively that
led to this show?
RM: I had been approached by the studio, Universal, to come up with a
take on Battlestar Galactica. There had been a few attempts over the years
and they’d all gone by the wayside. I wasn’t sure I wanted to do it because
I’d done ten years at Star Trek, and it was enough already with space
opera. But I went out and got the original pilot. I’d seen it on the air in the
’70s but when I watched it again I was struck by the dark premise at the
heart: an apocalyptic attack destroyed humanity. The show was about the
survivors and the Cylons chasing them forever. I thought that was a really
interesting format because the core was this disturbing notion of death
and being lost in the cosmos.
Typically, TV shies away from that. And in the original show you can see
they were having trouble squaring that as well, because what they did
was, yes, we were attacked, but now let’s go to the casino planet, trying to
be escapist and fun like Star Wars and elements of Star Trek. So I thought,
what if you took the premise and really did the show and asked yourself
in those circumstances what would happen to real people? If you took
normal, screwed-up people who just happened to be the ones that made
it, what would that show be like?
PD: In creating Galactica, did you start with characters, or did you start
with story, or world?
230
guest SPEAKER: R 0 R M R 0 R E 2 3 1
RM: I knew I wanted to maintain the premise: the show was about the
survivors who were on this last battleship. Then I decided the old show
was about a family. I looked at the family tree and decided to make some
changes. The daughter in the old show didn’t serve any purpose so I just
lost her. Then I made Starbuck a woman immediately, and decided she’s
the surrogate daughter to the father figure. The father figure of Adama
had no counterpart, neither a mother nor any counterpart in the civilian
world. I didn’t want it to be just a military show. Okay, the premise was
that the remnants of human civilization were in these fleets. So how do
they govern themselves? Are they going to try to maintain their democracy
as they move forward? Is the president to be a real player in this show,
unlike the old one? And I decided that should be a woman, and that sort
of completes the family, and that’s who the show is really about.
The other character that interested me was Baltar. The human race in the
original was not only attacked and destroyed; they were also betrayed.
Baltar betrayed them to their enemies. But then I tried to figure out, why
would he do that? There’s no reason I could fathom that anybody would
do that, so I came to the ⊩ that he does it inadvertently as part of
his weaknesses. He is, in many ways, the most human character of them
all in his capacity to rationalize and always look for a way that it’s not his
fault. He doesn’t mean to do anything evil but somehow always ends up
doing amoral or even evil things.
Those are the general parameters I thought that show was about and how
I was going to translate it to this show.
PD: Was there a character who you initially identified with or who you
wanted to build as the core of the show, or do you see it as more of an
ensemble drama?
RM: I saw it as an ensemble, a cast of characters who were from different
strata of society. There were Adama and Laura at the top, but I also
wanted to establish characters like Chief and Callie — people doing the
hard work at the bottom of the food chain who are not usually covered
in these kinds of shows.
PD: After the pilot, other voices came in from other writers on your staff,
and characters developed in ways maybe you didn’t foresee at the very
⊤. How do you deal with evolving from your premise to making
a show that has very long legs? What were the big creative turns from a
writing point of view, and did they surprise you?
2 3 2 W R I I I N G THE TV D R fl M fl SERIES / P R M D 0 U G L R S
RM: The way I typically work is to set out targets to write to. For instance,
up to the end of the first season in the show Bible, I’d sketched out what
the show was about. At the end of the first season Laura Roslyn would be
in jail and Adama would institute a coup against her. I knew that was a
good place to end season one with a cliffhanger. I kind of knew what the
arc would be to get us there.
PD: And you knew that from the inception?
RM: From the time we were considering the series. The mini-series was
its own ⊧, but when we started considering the series, I said,
okay, this is what the arc of the first season will be. In that first season,
when we were writing and breaking the stories in the room, I like a lot of
freedom to play around, and it turned out we didn’t take the path that I
set out from the get go. However, we still tacked toward the same target.
As Laura became president and had to shoulder the burdens of the entire
human civilization, I wanted to see that character change — a presumable
“liberal Democrat” becomes hawkish and much tougher and much more
concerned with security and very tight-fisted and starts cracking down on
people, taking away liberties and freedoms in the name of security. It’s
interesting that Adama, the military guy, would go, hey this isn’t what I
swore to defend.
But during the first season we started doing stories that touched on a
religious idea. Laura was having a connection to prophecy and her cancer
was having her take this drug that was giving her visions, and I started to
be much more interested in the religious aspects of the show. And then we
realized that actually we could get to the same place. The storyline of the
fleet rebellion never panned out — it didn’t give us much. But the stories
about her becoming religious were very rich. If Adama thinks she’s a reli¬
gious fanatic and she’s doing things based on faith or what she thinks God
is telling her, that’s enough of a reason for him to move against her.
In general, I like a process in the writing room where you’re free to re¬
invent stuff. You have an idea what the show is and play around with it
a lot, and when the writer goes off to write the teleplay, I say “Surprise
me.” I want to be surprised on reading it. I want to learn things about the
characters I didn’t know. Take a left turn when I thought you were going
right. That makes it fun for me to read.
PD: How large is your writing staff?
RM (counting names on his fingers); Seven.
G U E S I 5 P E fl K E fl : RON MOORE 2 3 3
PD: Do you sit around a
table and break each show
into beats according to the
arc you set out for the whole
season then send them off to
outline...
RM: Usually the writing staff
will break it while I’m off
doing something else.
PD: You’re not in the room.
RM: Sometimes I am, for a big
story. But at this point in the
series I’m not. They will break
the initial idea. Then I’ll go in
the room and they’ll pitch it
to me and play around with
it. Maybe we’ll have to re-break it to get it to a place where I’m happy
with it. Then they go to outline, which is mostly a sales document for the
network.
PD: Does SciFi Channel have to sign off on each episode?
RM: They have to sign off on all the outlines and scripts. All the networks
want to put their two cents in. Our story breaks are kind of general. When
I was at Star Trek I was schooled in detailed breaks. We sat there for hours
and days and we broke every ⊕ down almost to ⊘, and some¬
times pieces of ⊘ went up on those boards. It was tedious and took
forever. And now after doing that for so long, I have a more instinctive
feel for how it works. I can generally speak about what the shape of the
episode is, the shape of the beats. Then the writers go off and write the
teleplay. I prefer to do more changes in teleplay. The outline is just kind
of a sketch.
PD: Do you do the final polish on everything?
RM: I used to. I did that definitely for all the first season and most of the
second, but now I do less of that. The staff is getting the ⊞ of the show
so I say “Okay, bring something more to the party,” because I don’t know
that my ⊞ every week is necessarily the most interesting and effective
way to tell the story. And also I just get tired.
2 3 4 WRITING THE TV 0 R fl M fl 5 E R I E 5 / P R M D 0 U G L H 5
PD: Speaking to students or would-be writers out there who might try to
spec an episode for this show, what would you tell them to write?
RM: It’s a hard one to spec. You’d have to spec it in full knowledge that
it’s not going to fit into any of the continuing stories. They’d have to give
me an episode that’s a one-off that has nothing to do with this giant arc.
To me the show is most effective when it’s telling more than one story,
cross-cutting between the ups and downs of various characters. You want
the show to not be neatly resolved. The show is at its best when it’s not
a morality play: so it’s not obvious by the end of the show that the right
thing to do was X. Sometimes I want to arrive at the end of the show
and not be sure whether X was right or wrong. The best ones, to me, are
where you get to a place in a ⊕ or an act and you suddenly say I’m not
quite sure who I’m supposed to be rooting for here. What do I feel about
this? I think raising the question is much more interesting than provoking
a reaction.
PD: If you did read an outside script, what elements would you look for
in terms of story or ⊞ or character?
RM: I don’t like reading specs for this show. Td rather see something
original — a movie, even a play. I look for really interesting characters
more than ⊗ or even grasp of ⊚ structure. I can teach you that,
and the writing staff can teach you that. You can sit in the room with my
staff and break a three-act structure...
PD: Are you using three-act structure?
RM: No, I was talking in a general sense. We’re four and a tease. But
what I mean is I can give you a structure that will get us there. But char¬
acters — that’s really hard. It’s what an old boss of mine, Ira Behr used to
call finger-tip stuff — those little touches of character and life, the things
that make this an interesting person. If you know how to do that you’re
a writer; if not, you’re not. With a structure, you can bang out a ⊗,
getting a guy from here to there and catch the bad guy, but the characters
are dead. Those aren’t good scripts.
PD: Finally, is there anything you’d like to say to the hopeful writers out
there and the people in film schools?
RM: Two things: One is the apocryphal story I was told when I started
on staff on Star Trek. Someone told me about Heifitz, the great concert
violinist, standing in the wings ready to go on at Carnegie Flail. This
G U E 5 I SPEAKER: RAN M R 0 R E 2 3 5
young kid comes up to him and says “Please, please will you listen to
me play the violin?” “No, kid, I don’t have time.” “Please, please thirty
seconds. I just don t know if I have it, do I have it? Will you just listen
to me? The kid plays. And Heifitz says “No,” and goes on stage and
performs. The kid leaves and never plays again. He has a whole career,
a family, and many years later he runs into Heifitz at a charity, and says.
You don t remember me, but when I was a kid I came up to you and
asked if I had it. Now I’m successful and I’m happy but I have to ask how
could you do that? How could you listen to me play for thirty seconds
when I was just this young kid and tell me I had no talent?” And Heifitz
says, ‘That’s what I tell everybody because it’s the kind of business where
if you can be discouraged, it will discourage you.”
The other piece of advice comes from when I was on a panel of TV writers
and they were asking what we would tell young writers. Harlan Ellison,
the great science fiction writer, was sitting next to me. He grabbed the
microphone and leaned forward and said “Don’t be a whore.” That pretty
much summarizes it.
In IHE FUIORE:
Mmii WEBI^ODE^. ER ITV, lIDN^, IlGER{
BNB BEIIR5 - IH M
An image of blue lights from televisions all over the world opened the first
chapter — people watching in their living rooms, sharing an experience
with millions of strangers who also care about Meredith or Starbuck or
Jack or Bill, the “friends” who will visit at the same time next week. Well,
the blue lights are still on — even more of them — but from multiple TVs,
DVDs, cell phones and computer screens watched privately in separate
spaces.
In his 1967 book. The Medium Is the Massage, Marshall McLuhan
envisioned a world where people were connected not just by what they
watched but because they were watching it together — a modern “elec¬
tronic hearth” that replaced the neighborhood front porch. His idea of
television — especially primetime storytelling — as the heart of a “global
village” still resonates.
But subscriptions to TiVo jumped from 3.5 million in 2003 to 6.5 million
in 2004; and by 2009, at least 49% of American households are expected
to have some form of personal choice in what they watch and when.
McLuhan’s vocabulary has morphed into phrases like “time shifting”
and “appointment viewing.” Todd Leavitt, President of the Academy
of Television Arts and Sciences told the L.A. Times, “[TiVo] has funda¬
mentally changed the way we use television. ‘Must-see TV’ goes out the
window; the water cooler show goes out the window. You create your
own schedule.”
Beyond choosing when they watch, people are choosing how they watch,
and directly influencing what they watch. Ron Moore, who runs Battlestar
Galactica, said, “It’s going to just become ‘media,’ and it will stop having
distinctions that no longer mean anything. TV and computers are going to
become the same thing. You’re just going to have a box or boxes at your
236
IN THE F y T U R E 2 3 7
disposal, and you’ll put every¬
thing on this box ranging from
blogs to what we know today
as TV shows and movies.
“I think there’s more freedom
and more opportunity, and it’s
exciting that in a lot of ways
there are so many styles of
material to do. Getting away
from the tyranny of the time
slot, that it’s an hour episode
which means that with commer¬
cials you have 41 minutes and
32 seconds each week, which is
crazy. It would be nice to not
have to worry about that.
“I also think fracturing the
audience into various niches is a good thing. When broadcasting meant
broad broadcasting when only the big three existed, they had to appeal
to a gigantic swath of audience. To hold those huge numbers they had to
make the stuff that had the most common denominators. Now, when you
break it up into smaller chunks, Galactica and shows like The Shield can
appeal to specific audiences. Critics say it’s the golden age of TV because
of the quality of the shows, but I don’t think any of them could have
survived in the three-network era. Now the high quality shows can sustain
themselves with dedicated fans who are interested in their particular kind
of material.”
But even a network show like ABC’s Lost that aims for a wide audience
simultaneously plays to its internet viewers. Show-runner Damon Lindelof
noted: “We have to keep our eye on the mothership at all times and the
best ideas will always end up on the show. But we have constructed very
elaborate backstories to explain things, and those ideas would never end up
on the show because they don’t really mean anything to our characters.
“If Jack and Kate were to learn the origin of the numbers, most people
wouldn’t really care. So we decided let’s give the fans who really care
about the origin of the numbers the answer. It’s a sci-fi-ish technobabbly
thing and you can tell that on the internet. So we constructed this internet
experience of a girl who investigated the Dharma initiative and had the
2 3 B WRITING THE TV D fl fl M fl SERIES / P R M D 0 y G L H S
payoff be another Dharma film in which it was explained. But we could
never tell that on the show or your head would spin.
“It’s not an alternate universe. It’s more like having a compendium besides
a text that gives you a deeper understanding. Other mythology-based
shows like X-Files and Star Trek also have a ‘canon.’ For us, we say we
generated this and it is part of the Lost universe.”
Showtime’s The L Word went further. Brenna Hajek, who “interactivized”
that series, told Written By in May, 2005: “Interactivity and enhance¬
ments can deepen the connection between an audience and a story. Shows
can be enhanced in a number of ways, from little extras like providing
additional facts, all the way to full-blown alternative storylines and imagi¬
native new characters.
“The episode itself would remain unchanged, respecting viewers’ desire for
a completely linear experience. Viewers opting in for enhancements receive
additional content without distracting from the storyline. During certain
key decision points, the show is paused and a question is raised about the
action taken by the character in response to a ⊕. The viewer is then
shown a 90-second video clip of the character in question doing sort of a
modern-day soliloquy explaining why she reacted the way she did.
“Once the viewer experiences this additional insight, it’s her turn. Using
her remote, she chooses what she would do in that same situation. After
answering several of these personality questions, we are able to loosely
match the person with the personality type of one of the characters on the
show and at the end of the episode, viewers are treated to another piece of
exclusive video in which the character to whom they’re matched addresses
them directly, giving a little personality profile.”
IN THE FUTURE 2 3 9
Despite the audience input,
Hajek observed, “Writers
are storytellers. Interactivity
should be considered just
another storytelling tool in a
writer’s repertoire.”
Terry Borst, who writes the
monthly “Alt.screen” column
for Written By, sees the
evolvement of eTV (enhanced
TV) and ITV (interactive TV)
as both a future opportunity
for writers and a source of
success for shows right now.
“The resurgent interest behind
dramatic scripted programming is due not only to great writing but also
to the ease in which viewers can interact with each other on the internet,
quickly creating show loyalty and spreading the word to others. As that
interactivity carries over to a one-screen television format, the chance to
extend and expand the world of a show further increases.”
Whether or not viewers (or writers) want all those enhancements and
interactivity, they’re here to stay because advertisers are pushing. Allison
Dollar, CEO of the Interactive Television Alliance (ITA), the trade asso¬
ciation devoted to accelerating the deployment of interactive television,
thinks it may impact the way television is written.
‘“Mass market’ describes the old relationship between advertising and
programming. ITV changes the cadence and timing, particularly on episodics
because you’re not going to require the same peaks and valleys for your
spots. Some very successful writers are aware of that and they’re working
with advertisers right from the start. Reality programming, like American
Idol or Project Runway, has the advertiser connection already, ⊮’s going
to be permeating more serious dramas because when the business model
is exploded then you don’t have the ad time being bought and sold in the
same way. The money either comes from consumers or it comes from adver¬
tisers. You’ll probably see more of a return to traditional sponsorship where
advertisers are book-⊥ the shows and, yes, product placement.
“The simplest way is advertainment where the product stars like in BMW
films. I think we’re going to see more hybrid business models where
240 WRITING IKT TV ORRMR 5ERIE5 / PRM DOyGLRS
something’s not built into the storyline but into the story structure so
that advertisers feel they can support a particular show, for example, that
driving a certain kind of car is part of core characterization as in movies
like ⊭ or James Bond.”
Up to now, we’ve spoken about extensions of dramas as we know them.
But what if you let go of the tether? What are the opportunities for
writers if an existing series, or even an existing network, is not the basis?
I spoke to Frank Chindamo, president of Fun Little Movies, which runs
on channel 19 between CNN and MTV — but that’s not a channel on
your television; it’s on Microsoft and Smart Video which plays world-wide
on computers and cell phones. I asked if he sees mobisodes and webi-
sodes as an opportunity for people trying to break into the business.
FC: “It’s absolutely the easiest way to break in
because it’s an area where you can generate the
product. If you’re a writer and you have any
connection to show business — I mean even a
friend who has production equipment — you
are able to produce your own idea.”
PD: From a writing point of view, how do the
dramatic elements change when the story is
only minutes long?
Frank FC: “The way I look at storytelling for the
hindamo
small screen that has a short attention span
is exactly the same as when we look at storytelling for television: story,
story, story and character, character, character. The more compelling your
story is and the more compelling your characters, the better show you’re
going to have.
“We tend more towards soap opera in terms of drama. The hooks are
every one to three minutes, preferably immediately. We try to hook the
viewer to come back to watch the next one to three minutes, and the next
and the next and the next. You could develop one long sequential story
or separate stand-alone episodes. But no matter how you do it, you have
to hook people in.
“When we’re watching television we’re devoting 30 or 60 minutes to it.
But on the very small screen of the internet or mobile phone, people are
asked to devote no more than three to five minutes of their attention.
IN THE FUTURE 2 4 1
One of the most important things for a writer to understand about this
process is that the bigger the screen, the more subtle you can be. The
smaller the screen, the more outrageous, the more compelling, the more
quirky you need to be. Stories that would be completely off the wall for a
television series have played tremendously well on a small screen.
On the other hand. Fox launched their multi-multi-multi-million dollar
campaign for their series 24 on cell phones. Those turned out to be such a
colossal flop that they actually set back for six months to a year the whole
mobisode industry. That’s because it was all hype, and the story was not
compelling. They gave you a quick bit of story and then more hype and
then a quick bit of story and more hype.
“Two types of entities are involved in mobisodes. One is the kind of
company that produces videos that cost millions of dollars to make, like
Fox or Sony. Their plan is to produce mobisodes or webisodes that wrap
around a TV show or movie and send people toward the big ticket item.
But if you’re an independent company, you have the freedom to produce
the original content and hope that it will either be a hit on mobisodes or
webisodes, or graduate into television or movies.”
PD: Looking to the future, what do you think the opportunities will be for
people coming out of film schools with screenwriting degrees, or people
trying to break in.^
FC: “Becoming a TV drama
writer is extremely difficult
because at the end of the day
somebody’s going to have to
devote millions of dollars to
your writing in order to get
it on a television network.
But with this, someone
has to devote thousands of
dollars to your writing to get
it made. The opportunities
here are much more plentiful.
Whether you’re going to get
anything done really relies
on you, your writing, and
your independent network
— other writers, filmmakers
2 4 2 W R I I I N B T R E TV D R fl M fl SERIES / P R M D D II 8 L fl S
and that sort of thing. If you can create that independent scenario you
have a much better chance of having your work get made. And the only
way your work will be seen is if it’s made. With mobisodes, your fate rests
in your own hands.”
So where does that leave writers like you? If you’ve read this book because
you hope to create a series of your own, special opportunities lie in narrowly
defined new markets. But for all good writers, opportunities abound. A
spec script that has guts and passion and the skill to deliver them profes¬
sionally will always be useful. And storytellers will be as valued in the
coming age as we’ve been throughout history. Actually, we may be needed
even more to define and link cultures that have fractured.
No matter what the delivery system — networks, premium cable, basic
cable, syndication, cell phones, internet — the creative process starts with
you. Barbara Hall, Creator of Joan of Arcadia, said in Variety, “We don’t
pull any punches about the nature of human existence. We go through
stages where cynicism is the trend. I’m skeptical but not cynical. It’s about
the intention. That’s the best way to start and it all evolves from that
place. I think we need something that celebrates humanity more and the
resiliency of the human spirit.”
Paul Wolff, who was Supervising Producer of Life Goes On, an ABC
drama about a family whose son has Down Syndrome, said “I was able
to put in what I cared about. Television is so immediate, you get imme¬
diate response. Millions and millions of people see it in one night. If you
touched somebody you knew it, and you knew that what you were hoping
for happened. On Life Goes On we had a core audience of people who
had Down Syndrome in their family, and they watched us every week. We
used to get floods of phone calls. I was very moved by the parents.
“It’s very rare that you’re able to do it,” Wolff continued, “TV is a busi¬
ness like anything else and you have to do what the network expects.
You can’t start off saying, T’m going to send a message’ because it won’t
come out well. You really have to concentrate on becoming a craftsperson
so that when it’s time you can write something with a message very well
that’s also entertaining.”
But Life Goes On existed in a different era of network ownership under
a company called Cap Cities, and Wolff commented “Tom Murphy [Cap
Cities’ president] had a heart. The pilot of Life Goes On wasn’t the kind
most people would put on. But he still held that old-world belief that the
IN THE FUTURE 2 4 3
network should give something back to the community. It was wonderful
for him because the show was a hit too.”
I asked what advice he’d give a beginner who wants to write for television
now. “I would give the same advice to any writer, which is to get the stars
out of your eyes and don’t think about the money. You have to write from
your heart, write what matters to you. To be a real writer you have to
write beyond the fame, the success. You have to be a writer first.”
Ask any writer and you’ll hear the same: It starts with you. So now that
you ve learned what’s special about hour drama series, and how TV devel¬
opment works, and what it takes to work on staff, how a script is crafted,
and how to approach writing your own episode, and you’ve even heard
how to break in, and what the future holds — all that adds up to just one
moment: when you sit down and start to write. And now that time has
come. It’s your turn.
iPEIDIII I
llE$oyiicE$ For Yoo
Writers Guild of America, West
7000 West Third Street
Los Angeles, CA 90048
(323) 951-4000
Intellectual Property Registry: www.wga.org
323-782-4500
Office is open 9:30 AM to 5:30 PM Monday through Friday
Drop-off is available 24 hours outside the Guild
James R. Webb Memorial Library
(323) 782-4544
Located on the first floor of the WGA
Open to the public to read scripts and view shows
10 AM to 5 PM, Monday through Friday, and Thursday to 8 PM
(closed the last Friday of each month)
Writers Guild of America, East
555 W 57th Street
New York, N.Y. 10019
(212) 767-7800
(WGA East does not have a script library)
Writers Guilds affiliated with the WGA are located in many countries, for
example The Writers Guild of Great Britain and the Writers Guild of New
Zealand.
Museum of Television and Radio (West)
465 N. Beverly Drive
Beverly Hills, CA 90210
(310) 786-1000
Reading and viewing is free and open to the public
Noon to 5 PM, Wednesday through Sunday
244
APPENDIX 2 4 5
Museum of Television and Radio (East)
25 W. 52nd Street
New York, N.Y.
(212) 621-6600
$10 admission. Screenings and seminars.
Noon to 6 PM, Tuesday through Sunday
Academy of Television Arts and Sciences
5220 Lankershim Blvd.
North Hollywood, CA 91601
(818) 754-2800
(The television academy does not have a script library)
Thank you for permission to use interviews, excerpts, and images:
Interviews and comments
Steven Bochco, June 8, 2004
Frank Chindamo, January 7, 2007
Allison Dollar, July 9, 2004
Ann Donahue, December 19, 2006
Georgia Jeffries, April 21, 2004
Andrew Landis, August 7, 2004
Damon Lindelof, January 11, 2007
David Milch, May 25, 2004
Ron Moore, December 19, 2006
Brian Peterson, August 7, 2004
Melissa Rosenberg, January 4, 2007
Kelly Souders, August 7, 2004
Julia Swift, August 7, 2004
Eric Trueheart, August 7, 2004
Gib Wallis, August 7, 2004
John Wells, September 10, 2004
Wendy West, August 7, 2004
Paul Wolff, September 1, 2004
John Sacret Young, July 10, 2004
Excerpts of outlines and scripts
Handwritten page from China Beach pilot, courtesy of John Sacret
Young
NYPD Blue segments courtesy of Steven Bochco: ⊬, “Simone
Says,” and ⊬, “Hearts and Souls”
246
APPENDIX ? 2 4 7
Outline fragment from ER, “Love’s Labor Lost” written by Lance Gentile
© 1995 Warner Bros. Entertainment. Used by Permission. All Rights
Reserved.
Images
Individual headshots courtesy of: Steven Bochco, Frank Chindamo, Ann
Donahue, Georgia Jeffries, Damon Lindelof, David Milch, Ron Moore,
Melissa Rosenberg, John Wells, John Sacret Young
Frames from: Deadwood and Sopranos, courtesy of HBO.
Photo of ER © 2004 Warner Bros. All Rights Reserved.
Photo of The West Wing © 2004 Warner Bros. All Rights Reserved.
Snapshots in my backyard on August 7, 2004, courtesy of
Andrew Landis, Brian Peterson, Kelly Souders, Julia Swift,
Eric Trueheart, Gib Wallis, Wendy West
Chapter One
Dick Wolf regarding franchises and brands — Entertainment Weekly,
June 11, 2004
Comments about serials in “Don’t Touch That Dial,” article by Bill Carter,
The New York Times, Oct. 29, 2006
Comments by Shonda Rhimes in “Grey’s Anatomy” article in Los Angeles
Magazine, Sept., 2005
Comments on Sleeper Cell in television review by Lynn Smith in Los
Angeles Times, Dec. 9, 2006
Chapter Two
Josh Schwartz, The O.C. — The New York Times, March 22, 2004
Ron Cowan and Daniel Lipman regarding Queer as Folk — Written By,
May, 2004
Chapter Three
JJ-
Abrams regarding Alias — Emmy, Issue No. 2, 2004
The visit to the ER staff and John Wells’ comments —
“A Week in the Life of a Showrunner” by Lisa Chambers in Written By,
February, 1997
Spotlight on Writing Procedurals
Comments by Carol Mendelsohn and Ann Donahue in “The Women of
CSl” article by Susan LaTempa, Written By, Oct. 2002
Comments by Ann Donahue from interview Dec. 19, 2006
Spotlight on Writing Your Pilot
John Sacret Young from interview July 10, 2004
248
n P P E N 0 I X 3 2 4 9
Damon Lindelof from interview Jan. 11, 2007
Interview with Georgia Jeffries, Nov. 29, 2006
Chapter Five
“Hearing Voices” by Pamela Douglas is reprinted from The Journal of the
Writers Guild, November, 1995
Aaron Sorkin’s remarks were to an audience at the Writers Guild Theatre
for the Writers Guild Foundation, May 27, 2004
Spotlight on Blogging the Shows
Excerpt from interview with Tim Kring about Heroes is from 9thWonders
website.
Excerpt of interview with Bridget Carpenter about Friday Night Lights is
from The Crafty TV and Screenwriting Blog.
Comments by Krista Vernoff about Grey’s Anatomy are from the Grey
Matter blog.
Chapter Seven
“TV Writers” article by Pamela Douglas was originally printed in the Los
Angeles Times, Feb. 8, 1998
“Class Come to Order” article by Pamela Douglas was originally printed
in the Los Angeles Times, July 5, 2000
In the Future
Todd Leavitt on TiVo — Los Angeles Times, Sunday Calendar, Sept. 5,
2004
Ron Moore from interview, Dec. 19, 2006
Damon Lindelof from interview, Jan. 11, 2007
Brenna Hajek regarding The L Word, and observations by Terry Borst
about “eTV” in “Alt.screen” column by Terry Borst in Written By, May
2005
Allison Dollar from interview July 9, 2004
Frank Chindamo on mobisodes from interview Jan. 7, 2007
Barbara Hall, Joan of Arcadia — Daily Variety, June 17, 2004
Paul Wolff from interview. Sept. 1, 2004
Elo^hry
A - B - C STORIES. Parallel plots within an episode. Stories are denoted by
letters (A, B, C, D...). Often each story follows the dramatic arc of one of
the continuing cast.
ABOVE-THE-LiniE. Production elements at the top of a budget breakdown,
usually: producers, directors, writers, and sometimes composer or star.
Crew positions are “below-the-line.”
ACT. A dramatic unit made of a number of scenes. Network TV hours
usually have four acts that build to cliffhangers before commercial breaks,
though some have five or six acts. Cable shows which do not have breaks
may structure episodes into three or four theoretical acts.
ACTION. In a script, the description below a slug line that tells what is
occurring on screen. Also see DESCRIPTION.
AGENT. Someone who represents talent. A literary agent advances career
opportunities for writers who are signed to him and usually negotiates his
clients’ deals. Agents are licensed by the state, and receive 10% commis¬
sions.
⊣. A character whose goal opposes the ⊛’s goal.
Though sometimes considered the “villain,” in quality drama the best
opponent is a “worthy ⊣.”
ANTHOLOGY. A show whose installments are free-standing and do not
have continuing casts, such as Twilight Zone.
ARC. The progression of a character from one condition to a different
dramatic state. Example: A character who is cold in the ⊤ loves
someone in the end.
A.T.A.S. Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. Membership organiza¬
tion for all fields of television. Produces the Emmy Awards, among other
activities.
250
ATTACHED. Talent (for example, an actor) is “attached” when that person
commits to participating in a proposed show.
BACK MIME. The remaining nine episodes in a traditional 22-week season
after the first thirteen are finished. Even if a series is given a full-season
order, the CREEM-LICHT to produce the back nine may depend on how well
the first thirteen perform.
BACK STORY. History before the action on screen, usually incidents or
relationships that shaped a character.
BACK-UP SCRIPTS. Extra episodes beyond the pilot that a network orders
to assess a show s potential when it is not given a slot on the air, some¬
times called back-up pilots.
BACK DOOR PILOT. A two-hour movie that suggests potential for a series.
⊜. 1. A ⊕ or step of the story; 2. A pause in ⊘ or action.
⊜ sheet. Also see outline. A list of events (turning points) in the
story, often detailed in numbered scenes, though sometimes more gener¬
ally in sequences or even summaries of entire acts.
BIBLE. A guide to the series, especially for writers and directors joining
a show. Includes character biographies, rules for the world of the show,
summaries of past episodes, and sometimes what the producers are seeking
in tone, style or stories.
BREAKING A STORY. Finding the major turning points (and often act
breaks) in a story before writing a detailed outline.
CLIFFHANCER. A suspenseful ⊥; frequently jeopardy or raised stakes
at the act break and end of the season.
CLOSURE. In episodic drama, a story that is complete (arrives at its goal or
⊩) at the end of the hour.
COLD ⊨. See TEASER.
CONTINUING CAST. Main characters that return each week and “drive” the
core stories in the series.
CREATIVE CONSULTANT. An experienced writer-producer who may oversee,
re-write or write episodes, but might not be a full-time member of the
staff.
2 5 2 W H I I I N 6 I H E TV D H II M I) SERIES / P H M 0 0 U 6 L fl S
DAILIES. Unedited scenes screened after each day of production.
⊧. The process of bringing a project from concept to produc¬
tion; also the period when a writer works with producers to refine a script
through all revision steps.
DESCRIPTION. The actions, images and sounds on screen, excluding
⊘. See ACTION.
⊘. Everything the characters say that may include expressions
(i.e., sighs) and pauses as well as words.
DRAMEDY. A hybrid of drama and comedy.
ELEMENT. Significant talent, such as a producer, director or actors that
may be attached to a project to enhance its clout.
EPISODE. In dramatic television, a one-hour increment of the season; that
week’s group of stories. Also an installment of a continuing story-line.
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER. The top writer-producer on a TV series, often
responsible for supervising both creative and business aspects of the show,
overseeing the cast, crew and writing staff. See also SHOW-RUNNER.
EXT. Abbreviation for Exterior, used in SLUG LINES.
FIRST DRAFT. A script written by the writer before responding to notes from
a producer. All SPEC SCRIPTS and all drafts before submission are “first
drafts,” no matter how many times the writer has privately made revisions.
FORMAT. 1. A proposal for a series that may include characterizations,
genre, SPRINGBOARDS for stories, and suggestions for episodes or a PILOT.
2. The structure of a story, which may involve a FRANCHISE. 3. The printed
style of a script, usually set by screenwriting software.
FRANCHISE. Storytelling categories that generate dramatic situations, such
as medical, legal, or detective work. Successful series may also franchise
their FORMAT, as in C.S.I.
FREELANCE WRITER. A writer who is not on staff and receives an assign¬
ment for an episode.
GREEN LIGHT. Approval for a script to proceed to production.
GUEST CAST. Actors not in the continuing cast who may appear in a
limited number of episodes.
6 I D S S II R Y 2 5 3
HIATUS. The break between seasons when the entire staff is on vacation.
HOOK. An early action or situation that grabs an audience’s attention; also
an ⊨ of a pitch.
IN THE CAN. An episode that’s ready to air.
INT. Abbreviation for Interior, used in slug lines.
LEGS. A series with legs is capable of generating numerous stories for
episodes.
LOCKED. When a producer has approved the final version of an outline or
script, it is locked.
LOG LINE. A one sentence summary of a story; occasionally might be two
or three sentences. It quickly conveys the PREMISE and the dramatic ARC
or ⊗.
LONG ⊚. Stories that have the depth and range to continue for
years, especially in serials.
MANAGER. Similar to AGENT, except that managers are not licensed
and may represent their clients in areas beyond immediate assignments.
Managers typically charge 15%, compared with a 10% commission for
agents.
M.B.A. Minimum Basic Agreement, the agreement between the Writers
Guild of America and signatories (production entities) that specifies
minimum pay, health and pension, and other contractual issues.
OUTLINE. A list of every ⊕ that will appear in the script, in order,
⊤ with number 1 in each act. Each outline “⊜” is like a log line
for that ⊕. However, some shows use outlines that are less specific. An
outline is the first paid step in ⊧. Also called STEP OUTLINE.
See ⊜ SHEET.
OVERNIGHTS. Quick national ratings that give a preliminary account of
how many people watched a show.
PACKAGE. A commitment from actors or a director to ATTACH themselves
to a show in the effort to make a network or cable deal; also all of the
ELEMENTS needed to move a FORMAT (proposal) forward, which may
include a pilot script and SHOW-RUNNER. Some packaging agencies want
to represent all ABOVE-THE-LINE personnel.
2 5 4 WRITING THE TV 0 R R M fl SERIES / P fl M D D y G L R S
PICK-UP. A decision by a network or cable outlet to air (or renew) a
series.
PILOT. Prototype for a series; usually the first episode.
PITCH. Telling a story to a potential buyer; a sales presentation.
⊗. The dramatic structure of a story; how a story is executed from
premise to ⊡.
⊗ POINT. A strong “reversal,” or turning point in the story. ⊗ points
may coincide with CLIFFHANCERS and ACT BREAKS.
POLISH. A minor revision in a script, usually tightening scenes and refining
⊘, or cutting a shooting draft for production.
PREMISE. The inciting question or problem at the ⊤; answers
“what if?” or “why?”
PREMISE PILOT. Propels a series by placing the main character in a new
situation or ⊤ a quest from which future stories will spring.
PROCEDURALS. Clue-driven series that solve puzzles or mysteries and close
at the end of each episode. Examples include CSI and House.
PRODUCER. Most TV producers are writers whose titles have improved
because of experience and credits. Producers may supervise and re-write
other writers. This differs from a line producer who is responsible for
physical production.
PRODUCTION. Actually shooting the show, when cameras roll. Sometimes a
series described as “in production” includes both pre-production (writing,
casting, set-building), and post-production (editing, music, effects).
PROLOGUE. See teaser.
⊛. The character who drives the action and makes key
dramatic decisions; the person the audience roots for.
RESIDUALS. Additional payments to writers and other talent when a show
re-runs.
REWRITE. A significant revision of a script that may include re-structuring
and creating new characters and scenes.
⊕. The smallest dramatic building block, usually a step of the action.
e L D S 5 n R Y 2 5 5
or a ⊜, with complete dramatic structure. In production, it is sometimes
defined as the action in a single time and place.
⊕ HEADING. See SLUG LINE.
SEASON. A television season encompasses the months a show airs. Though
the traditional network season runs September to May, cable and other
outlets have different schedules.
SECOND DRAFT. A script that has been re-written after receiving notes
from a producer.
SERIAL. A series whose stories continue across many episodes in which the
main cast develops over time.
SHOOTING SCRIPT. The final draft which goes into production.
SHORT ORDER. A PICK-UP that commits to airing less than a full season,
sometimes only a few episodes of a new show.
SHOW-RUNNER. The top EXECUTIVE PRODUCER in charge of a series, the
one who determines the course of a show and supervises all aspects.
SLUG LINE. Some screenwriting software uses the term ⊕ HEADING. In
a script, INT. or EXT. is followed by the location of a ⊕, and time.
SPEC SCRIPT. A speculated screenplay written as a sample or in the hope
of being sold. Beginners may write a spec of an existing series to demon¬
strate their skill.
SPRINGBOARD. A situation in a show that provokes action; aspects of
a FRANCHISE that provide premises for episodes. Example: In a medical
drama, the arrival of a new patient creates a springboard for a story.
STAFF WRITER. The first rung in the ladder of a writing staff, usually a
beginner; also called “baby writer.”
STEP DEAL. A writing contract which provides “cut offs” after each step
of writing. For example, if a writer’s outline doesn’t work for the show, he
may be cut off, not hired to proceed to the first draft.
STORY EDITOR. A member of a series writing staff above STAFF WRITER
and below PRODUCER who writes and re-writes episodes.
SUPERVISING PRODUCER. A high-level writer-producer who may run the
writing room.
2 5 E W R I I I N B I H E TV 0 R fl M R 5 E R I E 5 / P R M 0 D U 6 E H S
SYNDICATION. The system of selling television series as packages to groups
of stations and foreign markets after a network run is complete, usually
requiring at least 88 episodes. A lucrative process that follows a show’s
first-run broadcast.
TEASER. Also called PROLOGUE and COLD ⊨. Dramatic material
before titles that may or may not be related to the story in the episode
which follows, but often does provide a HOOK or inciting incident.
TELEPLAY. Screenplay written for television.
TRADES. Daily newspapers that cover the entertainment industry, mainly
Variety and The Hollywood Reporter.
TREATMENT. A ⊚ of the film, technically the entire script in prose
without ⊘, but often abridged to a short summary.
WRITERS GUILD OF AMERICA. The professional union that represents
screenwriters. It has two branches. West (in Los Angeles) and East (in
New York), as well as affiliates in other countries.
Pamela Douglas is an award-winning screenwriter with numerous credits in
television drama. She was honored with the Humanitas Prize for Between
Mother and Daughter (CBS), an hour drama which also won nomination
for a Writers Guild Award in 1996.
She received an Emmy nomination and an NAACP Image Award for
writing Different Worlds, an hour drama on CBS. Twice, her shows won
awards from American Women in Radio and Television — her original
drama. Sexual Considerations, and her episode of the series A Year in the
Life (NBC).
As a developer, she wrote the pilot, bible, and 13 episodes of the acclaimed
PBS series Ghostwriter. Additional series credits include Star Trek: the
Next Generation, Frank’s Place, Paradise, Trapper John, M.D., and many
others.
She has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Writers Guild of
America.
At the University of Southern California, she is an Associate Professor in
the School of Cinematic Arts, where she teaches screenwriting.
Ms. Douglas is available for consulting and seminars.
Contact: pamdouglaswords@aol.com
257
ELEPHANT BUCKS
ELEPHANT
AN INSIDE GUIDE TO WRITING FOR TV SITCOMS
BUCKS
SHELDON BULL
AN INSIDE GUIDE TO WRITING FOR TV SITCOMS
Elephant Bucks is the really big money you can earn by writing suc¬
cessfully for a television sitcom. But there's more to writing a hit
series than hard-earned cash; there’s the enormous satisfaction of
seeing your best work come to life and entertain millions of viewers.
Sheldon Bull, who has written over 300 sitcom episodes, pro¬
vides this comprehensive guide so that you can write that killer
spec sitcom script and launch your career as a TV sitcom writer.
You will learn detailed inside information on how to:
■ Choose the right series to spec.
• Pick the right story.
• Write the scripts in a step-by-step method that will get you work.
• Use those scripts to get your big break in Hollywood.
■ Handle TV pitch meetings, freelance writing assignments, staff work, agents,
executives, and stars.
“/ was fortunate enough to have directed many scripts that I knew were wonderful, but I
didn’t always know why they were wonderful. After reading Sheldon's book, I now realize so
much more about the techniques involved in telling a good story. This book taught me a lot
about the art of comedy script writing.”
- Jay Sandrich, Emmy Award-Winning Director,
The Cosby Show, The Mary Tyler Moore Show
“A comprehensive, well-thought-out guide for ⊤ writers. It would be a pleasure to
read any spec script that used these guidelines. I oniy wish this had been around when I
cf orfpW( ”
- Susan Beavers, Co-Executive Producer, Two and a Half Men
“Sheldon Bull is not oniy the funniest man on two feet, but one of the most brilliant when
it comes to explaining how to be funny, and how to organize your creative ideas into the sitcom
form. This is the clearest, best, and only book that tells writers how to write for and break
into the fabulous world of TV sitcoms step by step"
- Blake Snyder, Author, Save the Cat! The Last Book on Screenwriting You'll Ever Need
SHELDON BULL has been earning Elephant Bucks as a professional television sitcom writer, producer,
and director for 30 years. His career has included writing for M*A*S*H-, developing, writing, and pro¬
ducing the hit CBS sitcom Newhart, starring Bob Newhart; writing and producing the hit ABC sitcom
Coach; and producing, writing, and directing the hit ABC sitcom Sabrina - The Teenage Witch.
$24.95 ■ 280 PAGES ■ ORDER NUMBER 68RLS ■ ISBN: 1932907270
24 HOURS 1.800.833.5738
WWW.MWP.COM
SELLING YOUR STORY IN 60 SECONDS
THE GUARANTEED WAY TO GET YOUR
SCREENPLAY OR NOVEL READ
⊯ HAUGE
Best-selling author ⊯ Hauge reveals:
■ How to Design, Practice and Present the 60-Second
Pitch
■The Cardinal Rule of Pitching
■The 10 Key Components of a Commercial Story
■The 8 Steps to a Powerful Pitch
■Targeting Your Buyers
■ Securing Opportunities to Pitch
■ Pitching Templates
■And much more, including “The Best Pitch I Ever Heard," an exclusive collection
from major film executives
“⊯ Hauge’s principles and methods are so well argued that the mysteries of effective
screenwriting can be understood - even by directors."
- Phillip Noyce, Director, Patriot Games, Clear and Present Danger, The Quiet
American, Rabbit Proof Fence
one of the few authentically good teachers out there. Every time I revisit my notes, I learn
something new or reinforce something that I need to remember.”
- Jeff Arch, Screenwriter, Sleepless in Seattle, Iron Will
“⊯ Hauge’s method is magic - but unlike most magicians, he shows you how the trick is
done.”
- William Link, Screenwriter & Co-Creator, Columbo; Murder, She Wrote
“By following the formula we learned in ⊯ Hauge’s seminar, we got an agent, optioned our
script, and now have a three picture deal at Disney.”
- Paul Hoppe and David Hemy, Screenwriters
⊯ HAUGE, is the author of Writing Screenplays That Sell, now in its 30th printing, and has
presented his seminars and lectures to more than 30,000 writers and filmmakers. He has coached
hundreds of screenwriters and producers on their screenplays and pitches, and has consulted on
projects for Warner Brothers, Disney, New Line, CBS, Lifetime, Julia Roberts, Jennifer Lopez, Kirsten
Dunst, and Morgan Freeman.
$12.95 ■ 150 PAGES ■ ORDER NUMBER 64RLS ■ ISBN: 1932907203
24 HOURS 1.800.833.5738 WWW.MWP.COM
SAVE THE CATreOES TO THE MOVIES
SAVE THE CAT!
THE screenwriter's GUIDE TO GOES TO THE
EVERY STORY EVER TOLD MOVIES
m
Tn« Sc'MnMrritcv s Ou 0« To Ev«<y Story Ever Tolfl
BLAKE SNYDER
In the long-awaited sequel to his surprise bestseller, Save the
Cat!, author and screenwriter Blake Snyder returns to form in a
fast-paced follow-up that proves why his is the most talked-about
approach to screenwriting in years. In the perfect companion
piece to his first book, Snyder delivers even more insider’s
information gleaned from a 20-year track record as "one of
Hollywood’s most successful spec screenwriters," giving you the
BLAKE SNYDER
clues to write your movie.
Designed for screenwriters, novelists, and movie fans, this book gives readers the key breakdowns
of the 50 most instructional movies from the past 30 years. From M*A*S*H to Crash, from Alien
to Saw, from JO to Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, Snyder reveals how screenwriters who
came before you tackled the same challenges you are facing with the film you want to write - or
the one you are currently working on.
Writing a “rom-com"? Check out the “Buddy Love” chapter for a "⊜ for ⊜” dissection of When
Harry Met Sally... plus references to 10 other great romantic comedies that will make your story sing.
Want to execute a great mystery? Go to the “Whydunit" section and learn about the “dark turn"
that’s essential to the heroes of All the President’s Men, Blade Runner, Fargo and hip noir Brick
- and see why ALL good stories, whether a Hollywood blockbuster or a Sundance award winner,
follow the same rules of structure outlined in Snyder’s breakthrough method.
If you want to sell your script and create a movie that pleases most audiences most of the time,
the odds increase if you reference Snyder’s checklists and see what makes 50 films tick. After all,
both executives and audiences respond to the same elements good writers seek to master. They
want to know the type of story they signed on for, and whether it’s structured in a way that satis¬
fies everyone. It’s what they’re looking for. And now, it’s what you can deliver.
BLAKE SNYDER, besides selling million-dollar scripts to both Disney and Spielberg, is still “one of
Hollywood’s most successful spec screenwriters,” having made another spec sale in 2006. An
in-demand scriptcoach and seminar and workshop leader, Snyder provides information for
writers through his website, www.blakesnyder.com.
$24.95 • 270 PAGES ■ ORDER NUMBER 75RLS • ISBN: 1932907351
24 HOURS 1 . 800 . 833.5738
WWW.IVIWP.COM
THE WRITER'S JOURNEY
3RD EDITION The Writer's )ourney
MYIIUC SlIUJCIURt HOR WIUVIRS
MYTHIC STRUCTURE FOR WRITERS THJHI.l
CHRISTOPHTR VOGl.CR
CHRISTOPHER VOGLER
BEST SELLER
OVER 170,000 COPIES SOLD!
See why this book has become an international best seller
and a true classic. The Writer's Journey explores the power¬
ful relationship between mythology and storytelling in a
clear, concise style that's made it required reading for movie
executives, screenwriters, playwrights, scholars, and fans of
pop culture all over the world.
Both fiction and nonfiction writers will discover a set of useful myth-inspired storytelling paradigms
(i.e.,‘‘The Hero’s Journey”) and step-by-step guidelines to ⊗ and character ⊧. Based
on the work of Joseph Campbell, The Writer’s Journey is a must for all writers interested in further
developing their craft.
The updated and revised third edition provides new insights and observations from Vogler’s
ongoing work on mythology’s influence on stories, movies, and man himself.
“This book is like having the smartest person in the story meeting come home with you and
whisper what to do in your ear as you write a screenplay. Insight for insight, step for step,
Chris Vogler takes us through the process of connecting ⊙ to story and making a script
come alive.’’
- Lynda Obst, Producer, Sleepless in Seattle, How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days;
Author, Hello, He Lied
“This is a book about the stories we write, and perhaps more importantly, the stories we live.
It is the most influential work I have yet encountered on the art, nature, and the very purpose
of storytelling."
- Bruce Joel Rubin, Screenwriter, Stuart Little 2, Deep Impact,
Ghost, Jacob’s Ladder
CHRISTOPHER VOGLER is a veteran story consultant for major Hollywood film companies and a
respected teacher of filmmakers and writers around the globe. He has influenced the stories of
movies from The Lion King to Fight Club to The Thin Red Line and most recently wrote the first
installment of Ravenskull, a Japanese-style manga or graphic novel. He is the executive producer
of the feature film P.S. Your Cat is Dead and writer of the animated feature Jester Till.
$26.95 ■ 400 PAGES ■ ORDER NUMBER 76RLS ■ ISBN: 193290736x
. .
24 HOURS 1 800 833.5738 WWW.MWP.COM
THE WAY OF STORY
THE CRAFT & SOUL OF WRITING
CATHERINE ANN JONES
The IVay of Story is an integrative approach to writing all forms of
⊚, illustrated with evocative insights from the author’s own
professional journey. Craft alone is not enough. It is the integration
of both solid craft and experiential inner discovery that makes this
writing book unique.
No other writing book offers the solid craft to guarantee a good
story along with the intangible inner dimensions of writing. This
book is a rare gift to writers - it feeds the soul of a writer and pro¬
vides practical tips on making a successful commercial script.
“Catherine Ann Jones is in possession of a powerful talent... nothing is more rare in my
opinion."
- Norman Mailer
“The author has great insight into the human condition and the ability to create characters about
whom we care."
- Stephen Simon, Oscar-Winning Producer
“I couldn't get to sleep and found myself reading it without stopping - not only because of the
wonderful information on craft, but because it really is ‘your journey’ and sprang from your life
experiences! The Way of Story is quite amazing and you have much to be proud of, while we, the
readers and students, have much to be thankful for!"
- Kathie FongYoneda, Paramount Studios, Author,
The Script-Selling Game
“On every page, we find something that teaches, delights, or opens the soul to creative depth.
Catherine Ann Jones offers a masterwork based on her long, astonishing career. And we are the
beneficiaries."
- Dianne Skafte, Ph.D, Author, Listening to the Oracle,
past Academic Dean, Pacific Graduate Institute
CATH ERIN E AN N JON ES is an award-winning playwright and screenwriter whose films include The
Christmas Wife (Jason Robards) which garnered Emmy®nominations for Best Picture, Best Writer,
Best Actor, Best Actress, and the popular television series. Touched by an Angel. She has served
on the writing faculties of The New School University (New York City), University of Southern
California (Los Angeles), and the Esalen Institute. Apart from teaching internationally, she also
works as a story and script consultant.
$22.95 • 200 PAGES ■ ORDER NUMBER 73RLS ■ ISBN; 1932907327
24 HOURS 1 . 800 . 833.5738
WWW.MWP.COM
THE POWER OF FILM
THE
HOWARD SOBER
POWER
America's most distinguished film professor provides the
OE
definitive A to Z course on the intricacies of film. Each entry in
this remarkable book, which represents a lifetime of teaching
EILM
film, has already inspired and educated several generations of
Hollywood's greatest filmmakers and writers.
This book examines the patterns and principles that make films
•wewa SuMr ( iviMnumWtg of nm iiorywiimg Mis t(M owat ni
(Me wiML boolc Huen of rc ■* autor'Wngly conirory to wHAf popular and memorable, and will be useful both for those who
•voryoA* Knew*' A ftmariiMia
• FroAcis Fe«d Coppola
want to create films and for those who just want to understand
MOW \K1) SI BEK
them better.
“Howard Suber's understanding of film storytelling fills the pages of this wise, liberating book.
Much of it is surprisingly contrary to what ‘everyone knows.' A remarkable work.”
- Francis Ford Coppola
“Those lucky enough to take Howard Suber’s legendary classes In UCLA's Film School made
many others want to read his book-in-progress. Now that he has delivered it, filmmakers,
scholars, and anyone else with a serious interest in film can rejoice. A fascinating and
thought-provoking work.”
- Alexander Payne, Director/Screenwriter, Sideways, About Schmidt, Election
“Howard Suber is admired and valued, not only in the academic world, but by some of the most
important creative people In the film industry. Suber genuinely helps us understand ‘the power of
film' - why it has been the predominant art form for more than a century, and why it continues to
have such power over the lives we all lead."
- Geoff Gilmore, Director of the Sundance Film Festival
“What Aristotle did for drama, Howard Suber has now done for film. This is a profound and
succinct book that is miraculously fun to read.”
- David Koepp, Screenwriter, War of the Worlds (2005), Spider-Man,
Mission Impossible, Jurassic Park
HOWARD SUBER, has taught more than 65 different courses in 40 years at UCLA’s celebrated
film school. He was the founder and director of the university’s program in film history, theory,
and criticism: the UCLA Film Archive; and the UCLA Film and Television Producers Program. The
recipient of both a Distinguished Teaching Award and a Life Achievement Award, Suber has
been a consultant to every major film studio, and his former students are currently active
throughout the world.
$27.95 ' 456 PAGES * ORDER NUMBER 61RLS ' ISBN: 1932907173
24 HOURS 1
.
800
.
833.5738 WWW.MWP.COM
DIGITAL FILMMAKING 101
2ND EDITION
AN ESSENTIAL GUIDE
TO PRODUCING LOW-BUDGET MOVIES
DALE NEWTON & JOHN GASPARD
America’s top two gurus of low-budget independent filmmaking
are back with the second edition of their popular bestseller.
From script to screen, every aspect of low-budget digital feature
production is covered in this updated classic. This second
edition provides additional detail on new business structures
for the independent filmmaker, looks at camera and editing
system options that are available for budgets as low as
$8,000, examines new trends in film festivals and distribution, and provides a wealth of infor¬
mation for anyone who has the passion and the zeal to bring their cinematic dreams to life.
“These guys don’t seem to have missed a thing when it comes to how to make a digital movie
for peanuts. It's a helpful and funny guide for beginners and professionals alike.”
- Jonathan Demme, Academy-Award®Winning Director, Silence of the Lambs
“Gaspard and Newton are the undisputed champs of straight taik when it comes to moviemaking?
-Timothy Rhys, Publisher and Editor, MovieMaker Magazine and MovieMaker.com
“Simply put, this is the best book on digital moviemaking I've yet read."
- Screentalk Magazine
“Strong, smart, funny advice for independent filmmakers from people who’ve gone through
the process more than once - and lived to tell about it?
- Peter Tolan, Co-Creator and Producer, Rescue Me]
Screenwriter, The Larry Sanders Show, Analyze This, My Fellow Americans
“The book is a vast storehouse of ideas of acquiring capital, preproduction, casting, finding
a crew, the production process, special effects, post and distribution. Digital Filmmaking 101
wili aimost certainiy change your perception of getting your project off the ground?
- Videomaker Magazine
When it comes to producing successful movies on a shoestring, JOHN GASPARD and DALE
NEWTON, know of what they speak. Together they created the award-winning digital feature.
Grown Men, as well as Resident Alien and Beyond Bob, two critically acclaimed ultra-low-
budget feature films. The first edition of Digital Filmmaking 101 has been a bestseller, racking
up sales of over 15,000 units worldwide.
$26.95 ■ 309 PAGES • ORDER NUMBER 124RLS • ISBN: 1932907238
24 HOURS 1 . 800 . 833.5738
WWW.MWP.COM
⊯ WIESE PRODUCTIONS
Since 1981, ⊯ Wiese Productions has been dedicated to providing both
novice and seasoned filmmakers with vital information on all aspects of filmmaking.
We have published nearly 100 books, used in over 600 film schools and countless
universities, and by hundreds of thousands of filmmakers worldwide.
Our authors are successful industry professionals who spend innumerable hours
writing about the hard stuff: budgeting, financing, directing, marketing, and
distribution. They believe that if they share their knowledge and experience with
others, more high quality films will be produced.
And that has been our mission, now complemented through our new web-based
resources. We invite all readers to visit www.mwp.com to receive free tipsheets
and sample chapters, participate in forum discussions, obtain product discounts —
and even get the opportunity to receive free books, project consulting, and other
services offered by our company.
Our goal is, quite simply, to help you reach your goals. That’s why we give our
readers the most complete portal for filmmaking knowledge available — in the
most convenient manner.
We truly hope that our books and web-based resources will empower you to
create enduring films that will last for generations to come.
Let us hear from you at anytime.
Sincerely,
⊯ Wiese
Publisher, Filmmaker
www.mwp.com
FILM & VIDEO BOOKS
Cinematic Storytelllni: The 100 Most Powerful Film Cortmtions Every Myth and the Movies: Discovering the Mythic Structure of 50 Unforgettable
Filmmaker Must Fnow/ Jennifer Van SiJII / $24.95 Films / Stuart Voytilla / $26.95
Complete DVD Book, The: Designing, Producing, and Marketing Your On the Edge of a Dream: Magic and Madness in Bali
Independent Film on DVD / Chris Gore and Paul J. Salamoff/ $26.95 ⊯ Wiese/$16.95
Complete Independent Movie Marketing Handbook, The: Promote, Distribute Perfect Pitch, The: How to Sell Yourself and Your Movie Idea to Hollywood
& Sell Your Film or Video/ Mark Steven Bosko/ $39.95 Ken Rotcop/ $16.95
Could It Be a Movie?: How to Get Your Ideas Out of Your Head and Up on the Power of Film, The
Screen/Christina Hamlett/$26.95 Howard Suber/ $27.95
Creating Characters: Let Them Whisper Their Secrets Psychology for Screenwriters: Building ⊖ in your Script
MarisaD’Vari/$26.95 William Indick, Ph.D./$26.95
Crime Writer’s Reference Guide, The: 1001 Tips for Writing the Perfect Crime Save the Cat!: The Last Book on Screenwn'bng You’ll Ever Need
Martin Roth/$20.95 Blake Snyder/ $19.95
Cut by Cut: Editing Your Film or Video Screenwriting 101: The Essenbal Craft of Feature Film Wribng
Gael Chandler/$35.95 Neill D. Hicks/ $16.95
Digital Filmmaking 101,2nd Edition: An Essenbal Guide to Producing Screenwriting for Teens: The 100 Principles of Screenwriting Every Budding
Low-Budget Movies/ Dale Newton and John Gaspard/ $26.95 Writer Must Know/ Christina Hamlett/ $18.95
Digital Moviemaking, 2nd Edition: Alt the Skills, Techniques, and Moxie You'll Script-Selling Game, The: A Hollywood Insider’s Look at Getting Your Script
Need to Turn Your Passion into a Career/Scott Billups/ $26.95 Sold and Produced/ Kathie FongYoneda/ $16.95
Directing Actors: Creating Memorable Performances for Film and Television Selling Your Story in 60 Seconds: The Guaranteed Way to get Your Screenplay
Judith Weston / $26.95 or Novel Read / ⊯ Hauge / $12.95
Directing Feature Films: The Creative Collaboration Between Directors, Setting Up Your Scenes: The Inner Workings of Great Films
Writers, and Actors/Mark Travis/$26.95 Richard D. Pepperman / $24.95
Eye Is Quicker, The: Film Editing: Making a Good Film Better Setting Up Your Shots: Great Camera Moves Every Filmmaker Should Know
Richard D. Pepperman / $27.95 Jeremy Vineyard/$19.95
Fast, Cheap & Under Control: Lessons Learned from the Greatest Low-Budget Shaking the Money Tree, 2nd Edition: The Art of Getting Grants and
Movies of All Time/John Gaspard / $26.95 Donabons for Film and Video Projects / Morrie Warshawski / $26.95
Film & Video Budgets, 4th Updated Edition Sound Design: The Expressive Power of Music, ⊞, and Sound Effects in
Deke Simon and ⊯ Wiese / $26.95 Cinema/ David Sonnenschein/ $19.95
Film Directing: Cinematic Motion, 2nd Edition Stealing Fire From the Gods, 2nd Edition: The Complete Guide to Story for
Steven D. Katz/ $27.95 Writers & Filmmakers/ James Bonnet / $26.95
Film Directing: Shot by Shot, Visualizing from Concept to Screen Storyboarding 101: A Crash Course in Professional Storyboarging
Steven D. Katz/ $27.95 James Fraioli / $19.95
Film Director’s Intuition, The: Script Analysis and Rehearsal Techniques Ultimate Filmmaker’s Guide to Short Films, The: Making It Big in Shorts
Judith Weston/ $26.95 KimAdelman/ $16.95
Film Production Management 101: The Ultimate Guide for Film and Television Working Director, The: How to Arrive, Thrive 4 Survive in the Director's Chair
Producbon Management and Coordination / Deborah S. Patz/ $39.95 Charles Wilkinson / $22.95
Filmmaking for Teens: Pulling Off Your Shorts Writer’s Journey, - 2nd Edition, The: Mythic Structure for Writers
Troy Lanier and Clay Nichols/ $18.95 Christopher Vogler/ $24.95
First Time Director: How to Make Your Breakthrough Movie Writer’s Partner, The: 1001 Breakthrough Ideas to Sbmulate Your Imaginabon
Gil Bettman/$27.95 Martin Roth / $24.95
From Word to Image: Storyboarding and the Filmmaking Process Writing the Action Adventure: The Moment of Truth
Marcie Begleiter/ $26.95 Neill D. Hicks/ $14.95
Hitting Your Mark, 2nd Edition: Making a Life - and a Living - as a Film Director Writing the Comedy Film: Make 'Em Laugh
Steve Carlson / $22.95 Stuart Voytilla and Scott Petri / $14.95
Hollywood Standard, The: The Complete and Authoritative Guide to Script Writing the Killer Treatment: Selling Your Story Without a Script
Format and Style/Christopher Riley/ $18.95 ⊯ Haiperin /$14.95
I Could’ve Written a Better Movie Than That!: How to Make Six Figures as a Writing the ⊪: Building ⊖ and Tension in Your Film Script
Script Consultant even if You’re not a Screenwriter/Derek Rydall/ $26.95 ⊯ Haiperin / $19.95
Independent Film Distribution: How to Make a Successful End Run Around Writing the Thriller Film: The Terror Within
the Big Guys/Phil Hall/ $26.95 Neill D. Hicks/$14.95
Independent Film and Videomakers Guide - 2nd Edition, The: Expanded and Writing the TV Drama Series: How to Succeed as a Professional Writer in TV
Updated/ ⊯ Wiese/ $29.95 Pamela Douglas / $24.95
Inner Drives: How to Write and Create Characters Using the Eight Classic DVD & VIDEOS
Centers of Motivation/ Pamela Jaye Smith / $26.95
Field of Fish: VHS Video
I’ll Be In My Trailer!: The Creative Wars Between Directors & Actors Directed by Steve Tanner and ⊯ Wiese, Written byAnnamarirMurphy/ $9,95
John Badham and Craig Modderno/$26.95
Hardware Wars: DVD/Written and Directed by Ernie Fosselius/ $14.95
Moral Premise, The: Harnessing Virtue & Vice for Box Office Success
Stanley D. Williams, Ph.D. / $24.95 Sacred Sites of the Dalai Lamas - DVD, The: A Pilgrimage to Oracle Lake
A Documentary by ⊯ Wiese / $22.95
To Order go to www.mwp.com or Call 1-800-833-5738
1
THE ULTIMATE THE HOLLYWOOD
first time director:
hov Mni^« jrour t>f»fcihni>4cti novHr FILMMAKER'S 1 SJANDARD
GUIDE TO
SHORT FILMS
1
I SIMl' hifm Production
bf (3 heuMi
Deborah S. Patz
The World’s Best-Selling Books for Independent Filmmakers
PERFORMING A R T S / T E L E V I S I O N WRITING $26.95 U.S.
What’s the hottest job in Hollywood? Writing a TV drama series, and this 2'^'^ edition of Pamela
Douglas’ bestseller gives the latest inside scoop on succeeding in this highly competitive field.
Television is changing with new shows, new ways of storytelling, and opportunities which didn't exist
when Writing the TV Drama Series ms first published. Learn from the best, as the writers behind the
top shows on television reveal their art and craft in creating and selling pilots and writing episodes
that reach millions of viewers.
“Hard to believe Pamela Douglas could best herself, but the second edition ofWriting the TV Drama
Series is cutting-edge and covers everything from series to pilots to the new evolving relationship
between television and the Internet A must-have for the serious television writer."
- Jack Epps, Jr., Chair of the Writing Division, School of Cinematic Arts, University of
Southern California; Screenwriter, Top Gun, Dick Tracy, The Secret of My Success
"Right now is the golden age of TV drama, and Pamela Douglas's Writing the TV Drama Series is far
and away the best resource I know of for any writer wishing to work in this tremendously challenging
and rewarding field."
- Daniel Petrie, Jr., President, Writers Guild of America, west; Writer, The Big Easy (Oscar^
nomination), Beverly Hills Cop
“Pamela Douglas has written ‘the book’ on writing episodic drama. In the rapidly changing landscape
of this genre, Douglas is on top of the trends and thinking one step ahead. She has created the gold
standard for any book on this topic."
- Catherine Clinch, Contributing Editor, Creative Screenwriting Uagaim-, Publisher,
WWW. MomsMedia World, com
"An invaluable resource for anyone aspiring to be a television writer. Having worked with ⊤
writers for years, the information in Pamela's book Is exactly what they need to know; how to write
excellent scripts and how to become savvy enough about the business to break in and get their first job
writing for television. I recommend it to every new writer I work with."
- Carole Kirschner, Head of the CBS Diversity Institute Writers Mentoring Program-,
Program Director, WGA Showrunner Training Program
Pamela Douglas has won the Humanitas Prize, been nominated for an Emmy®, and has received many
other screenwriting awards, including those from the Writers Guild of America and American Women in
Radio and Television.
ISBN-13:978-1-932907-34-6
ISBN-10:1-932907-34-3
111! Mil III IIIIUIIU II HIM 11 c; o iL o c
⊯ WIESE PRODUCTIONS 9781932907346 22
www.mwp.com
10/24/2019 15:01-3
