Copyright © 2021 by Robert McKee
Cover copyright © 2021 by Hachette Book Group, Inc.
Hachette Book Group supports the right to free expression and the value of
copyright. The purpose of copyright is to encourage writers and artists to
produce the creative works that enrich our culture.
The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this book without permission
is a theft of the author’s intellectual property. If you would like permission
to use material from the book (other than for review purposes), please
contact permissions@hbgusa.com. Thank you for your support of the
author’s rights.
Twelve
Hachette Book Group
1290 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10104
twelvebooks.com
twitter.com/twelvebooks
First Edition: May 2021
Twelve is an imprint of Grand Central Publishing.
The Twelve name and logo are trademarks of Hachette Book Group, Inc.
The publisher is not responsible for websites (or their content) that are not
owned by the publisher.
The Hachette Speakers Bureau provides a wide range of authors for
speaking events. To find out more, go to www.hachettespeakersbureau.com
or call (866) 376-6591.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data has been applied for.
ISBNs: 978-1-4555-9195-4 (hardcover), 978-1-4555-9194-7 (ebook)

E3-20210324-JV-NF-ORI

CONTENTS
Cover
Title Page
Copyright
Dedication
Introduction
PART ONE: IN PRAISE OF CHARACTERS
Chapter One: Characters Versus People
Chapter Two: The Aristotle Debate
Chapter Three: An Author Prepares
PART TWO: BUILDING A CHARACTER
Chapter Four: Character Inspiration: Outside In
Chapter Five: Character Inspiration: Inside Out
Chapter Six: Roles Versus Characters
Chapter Seven: The Outer Character
Chapter Eight: The Inner Character
Chapter Nine: The Dimensional Character
Chapter Ten: The Complex Character
Chapter Eleven: The Completed Character
Chapter Twelve: The Symbolic Character
Chapter Thirteen: The Radical Character
PART THREE: THE CHARACTER UNIVERSE
Chapter Fourteen: Character in Genre
Chapter Fifteen: Character in Action
Chapter Sixteen: Character in Performance
PART FOUR: CHARACTER RELATIONSHIPS
Chapter Seventeen: Cast Design
Conclusion: The Revolutionary Writer
Acknowledgments
Discover More
About the Author
Also by Robert McKee
Glossary
Notes
To Mia,
my wife, my life.
Explore book giveaways, sneak peeks, deals, and more.
Tap here to learn more.
Characters are not human beings. A character is no more human than the
Venus de Milo, Whistler’s Mother, and Sweet Georgia Brown are women.
A character is a work of art—an emotive, meaningful, memorable metaphor
for humanity, born in the mind-womb of an author, held safe in the arms of
story, destined to live forever.

INTRODUCTION
For most writers, what’s past is past, and so they focus on future trends,
hoping to improve their chances for production or publication by adapting
to what’s current. Writers should indeed stay in tune with their times, but
while cultural and aesthetic vogues come and go, there are no trends in
human nature. As evolutionary science has shown in study after study,
humanity has not evolved for eons. The guys and gals who stenciled their
handprints on the walls of caves forty thousand years ago were doing then
what we do today—making selfies.
For thousands of years, artists and philosophers portrayed and studied
human nature, but then, beginning in the late nineteenth century, science
focused on the mind behind that nature. Researchers evolved theories of
human behavior ranging from psychoanalysis to behaviorism to
evolutionism to cognitivism. These analyses labeled and catalogued traits
and flaws by the dozens, and without question their perceptions stimulate
the writer’s creative thinking about characters and casts. This book,
however, does not favor any single school of psychology. It gathers
concepts from many disciplines to trigger the imaginings and intuitions that
inspire and guide the talented.
Character’s primary purpose is to enrich your insights into the nature of
the fictional character and sharpen your creative techniques as you invent a
complex, never-seen-before cast of personalities, starting with your
protagonist, then moving outward through your first, second, and third
circles of supporting roles, ending with the nameless passing at the far
edges of episodes. To that end, expect reworkings. Chapter by chapter,
refrain by refrain, certain primal principles will echo inside new contexts. I
reiterate ideas because each time an artist rethinks the familiar in a new
light, her comprehension deepens.
In the chapters that follow, the principle of contradiction underpins
virtually every lesson in character design. I play opposites against each
other: characters versus human beings, institutions versus individuals, traits
versus truths, the outer life versus the inner life, and so on. You and I know,
of course, that along any spectrum strung between polar extremes, shades of
possibility blur into overlaps and admixtures. But for clear, facile
perception of character complexity, a writer needs a sensitivity to contrast
and paradox, an eye for contradiction that unearths the full range of creative
possibility. This book teaches that skill.
As always, I will call on current examples, both dramatic and comic,
taken from award-winning films and screen series, novels and short stories,
plays and musicals. To those contemporary works, I will also add characters
created by canonical authors from the past forty centuries of literacy—
Shakespeare first among them. Some of these titles may be unread or
unseen by you, but hopefully you’ll add them to your personal program of
study.
Characters taken from all eras serve two purposes: (1) The task of an
illustration is to exemplify and clarify the point at hand, and, as it happens,
the sharpest example is often history’s first. (2) I want you to take pride in
your profession. As you write, you join an ancient, noble, truth-telling
tradition. Brilliant casts from the past will set the stage for your future
writings.
Character has four parts. Part One: In Praise of Characters (Chapters
One through Three) explores sources of inspiration for character invention
and lays out the foundational work that shapes your talents toward creating
superbly imagined fictional human beings.
Part Two: Building a Character (Chapters Four through Thirteen)
pursues the creation of never-met-before characters, beginning with
methods from the outside in, followed by the inside out, expanding into
dimensionality and complexity, ending with roles at their most radical. As
Somerset Maugham expressed it, “The only inexhaustible subject is human
nature.”
Part Three: The Character Universe (Chapters Fourteen through
Sixteen) contexts character by genre, performance, and
reader/audience/character relationships.
Part Four: Character Relationships (Chapter Seventeen) illustrates
the principles and techniques of cast design by mapping the dramatis
personae of five works taken from prose, cinema, theatre, and longform
television.
All told, I will parse the universe of character into its galaxies, galaxies
into solar systems, solar systems into planets, planets into ecologies,
ecologies into the life force—all in order to help you uncover creative
meanings in the human mystery.
No one can teach you how to create story, character, or anything else.
Your processes are idiosyncratic, and nothing I teach will do the writing for
you. This book is not a how-to but a what-is. All I can do is give you
aesthetic principles and examples to illustrate them, laying out parts,
wholes, and their relationships. To this course of study, you must add your
brains, taste, and long, long months of creative work. I cannot take you by
the hand. Instead, I offer knowledge to leverage your talent. To that end, I
suggest you read this book slowly, stopping and going to absorb what
you’ve learned and give thought to how it applies to your work.
Character strives to deepen your insight into character complexity,
sharpen your eye for expressive traits, and in those dark days when
inspiration needs a friend, shepherd you through the configuration of an
entire cast.

THE PRONOUN PROBLEM
The mind-stubbing word-jams of s/he, he/she, her/him, he-and-she, and
her-and-him, along with the mind-numbing pronoun one and the plural
pronouns of their, they, and them used to neutralize gender, well intentioned
as they may be, slow the read. The singular pronoun he may pretend to be
gender neutral, but he is not. So, in odd-numbered chapters, unspecified
persons will be female; in even-numbered chapters, they will be male.

PART I
IN PRAISE OF CHARACTERS
Characters shape our lives in ways our fellow human beings do not. Our
upbringing sets forces inside us in motion, but once we start to absorb
stories, characters become equally important guides and models—far more
than our parents and society dare admit. Invented beings enlighten us, help
us make precious sense out of ourselves and those around us.
The first three chapters take a deep dive into the elements of human
nature, as well as the principles of the storyteller’s art, that form the basis of
the fiction writer’s profession. Chapter One opens this study with a look at
the differences between imagined and actual human beings.
1

CHARACTERS VERSUS PEOPLE
A human being is an evolving work-in-progress; a character is a finished
work-in-performance. Real people impact us directly and explicitly;
characters slip into our imaginations and touch us implicitly. Human beings
have social lives; characters live in the cast their author invented. People
represent themselves; characters symbolize the human spirit.
Once in performance on page, stage, or screen, however, these
metaphors become person-like, singular and unique. Unlike the opaque
natures of people, brilliantly dramatized characters are clearer yet more
complex, intriguing yet more accessible, than anyone you may know.
What’s more, once fixed within the parentheses of her story, she stays who
she becomes and never changes beyond her story’s climax.
When a human being spills out of reality, it’s into a grave, but when a
character spills out of a story, it’s into another story. Jimmy McGill, for
example, went from Breaking Bad to inspire the prequel Better Call Saul;
Jesse Pinkman did the same for the sequel El Camino.
You don’t have to look far to glimpse the divide between characters and
people. Just compare actors to their roles. The finest performers rarely
inspire the people in their daily lives the way their characters compel the
world’s audiences. Why? Because people experience far more than they
express, while characters express everything they experience. A character
enters a story as a canister of the past and a sponge for the future, written
and performed to express her nature in full, to be known to the core and
remembered indefinitely. Great characters are therefore more layered, more
dimensional, more involving than the human stuff of their making.
Human beings exist twenty-four hours a day; characters exist between
curtain up and curtain down, fade-in and fade-out, first page and last. A
person has a life yet to live and it finishes when death decides; a character is
finished when her author decides. Her life begins and ends when readers
open and close a book or audiences enter and exit a theatre.1
If a character had access to our reality, she would walk out of her story
and never come back. She would have other, more pleasant things to do
than suffer her fictional life.

CHARACTER AND INSIGHT
Compared to those around us, characters, because of their willingness to
stand still while we study them, fill us with insight. As a character talks and
acts in front of us, a psychic power seems to take us through her words and
deeds, down to her unspoken thoughts and desires, then even deeper into
the silent currents in the ultimate subtext, her subconscious mind. When we
turn our gaze on ourselves, however, our subconscious stays stubbornly
sub. For that reason, the truth of who we really are always remains
something of a mystery. As Robert Burns put the problem, “Oh, would
some power the gift to give us, to see ourselves as others see us.” We baffle
ourselves at times, but a cast of characters offers a kind of group therapy.
Characters lean into their futures, focused on personal goals, their
awareness narrowed by their pursuit. But when we pick up a book or buy a
ticket, we first lean back to survey the 360-degree world that encircles the
cast, and then forward to peer into psychological depths. Thanks to these
aesthetic angles, we can gain insights into characters and their societies
often better than we see into ourselves and our own. I often wish I
understood myself and the United States as well as I understand Walter
White and Breaking Bad.

CHARACTER LIMITS
Relentless contradictions crosscut human nature—good and evil, love and
cruelty, generosity and selfishness, wisdom and stupidity, and so on down
an endless list of opposites. But in the everyday world, few explore their

inner paradoxes to the breaking point. Who of us has dared pursue our
fragmented self into the dark depths suffered by Sethe in Toni Morrison’s
Beloved? Who has navigated as many points on the moral compass as
Better Call Saul’s two-souls-in-one, Jimmy McGill / Saul Goodman? Did
William Randolph Hearst live his everyday life with anything like the fatal
passions of his cinematic avatar in Citizen Kane?
Even the renowned—Marcus Aurelius, Abraham Lincoln, Eleanor
Roosevelt—are remembered more as characters than people because
biographers novelized them, writers dramatized them, and actors gave them
life after death.

CHARACTER AND FOCUS
People wear masks; characters invite intrigue. We often meet people either
too difficult to understand or too irrelevant to bother with, but an author can
turn an annoying persona into a personality puzzle. The finest fictional
characters demand rigorous concentration and psychological acumen from
the writer. Just as we grapple with the difficult people in our lives, we
gravitate toward characters who make our brains work. That’s why, with a
delicious twist of irony, characters who demand effort feel so very real. The
more specific, dimensional, unpredictable, and difficult to understand, the
more fascinating and more real a character seems. The more generalized,
more consistent, more predictable, and easy to understand, the less real, less
interesting, and more cartoonish she seems.2

CHARACTER AND TIME
From a character’s point of view, a river of time pours out of her half-
remembered past and spills into an ocean of unknown futures. But from our
point of view, storytelling spatializes time within the parentheses of first
and last images. Because an author has frozen time’s flow, the observing
mind of the reader/audience skates freely back and forth through days,
months, years, tracing story lines to their roots, unearthing causes buried in
the past, prophesizing future outcomes before the character’s fate arrives.
A story is a metaphor for life that expresses the nature of being; a
character is a metaphor for humanity that expresses the nature of becoming.
A story unfolds, event by event, but once told it stands, like a work of
temporal sculpture, in a state of permanent being. A multifaceted role, on
the other hand, changes and reshapes the character’s inner and outer selves
through conflict, until the climax sends her into a future beyond the story’s
climax, altered in substance and circumstance—an arc of becoming.
Ideas have a life span, often short. That’s why stories tend to rust, and
the more era-bound their meanings, the shorter their existence. For even the
greatest of stories to survive, their themes need constant, up-to-the-now
reinterpretation.
What lasts is character. Homer’s Odysseus, Shakespeare’s Cleopatra,
James Joyce’s Leopold Bloom, Arthur Miller’s Willy Loman, Mario Puzio’s
Michael Corleone, Margaret Atwood’s Offred the Handmaid, and the
Charles brothers’ Frasier and Niles Crane will live in the world’s
imagination long after their stories have faded from memory.3

CHARACTER AND BEAUTY
When a character’s traits and depths align seamlessly, she emanates beauty.
Beauty is not prettiness. Pretty is decorative; beautiful is expressive. This
quality has been described as harmony (Plato), radiance (Aquinas),
sublimity (Elijah Jordan), clarity and repose (John Ruskin), a deedless calm
(Hegel)—all attempts to define the feeling that emanates from fine art, no
matter how turbulent or dark the work. A character may be villainous, even
Horror-film ugly, but when her traits harmonize into a meaningful whole,
she radiates a kind of beauty, however grotesque. And as Plato taught, our
response to beauty feels much like love, and so the pleasure we take in a
superbly crafted character is more than a matter of judgment—it’s a sense
of affection. Beauty amplifies our inner life; kitsch deafens it.4

CHARACTER AND EMPATHY
Empathy with a character calls for refined sensitivity. Vicarious
identification excites our senses and energizes our minds. Characters
empower us to reflect, to know ourselves from within and without. They
show who and why we are who we are in all our strangeness, inconsistency,
duplicity, and hidden beauty.5
Henry James said the only reason to write fiction is to compete with life.
In the same vein, the only reason to create a character is to compete with
humanity, to conjure up someone more complex, more revealing, more
magnetic than anyone we might meet. If stories and characters didn’t
compete with reality, we wouldn’t write them.6
What do we want from a well-told story? To live in a world we could
never experience. What do we want from a well-told character? To
experience a life we would never live through a person we could never
forget.
Memorable characters find a home in our minds by drawing us into a
shared humanity. Linked by empathy, a character takes us through the
vicarious yet dynamic experiences of someone else’s emotional life. A
memorable character can be separated from her story and then held in the
imagination, encouraging us to send our thoughts into the spaces between
her scenes, into her past and future.
Unlike us, characters get a lot of help. On the page, vivid prose
descriptions and dialogue ignite our mirror neurons and give characters
their heightened presence. Onstage and on-screen, actors bring the writer’s
creations to life. As audience members, we deepen, refine, and seal each
performance with our personal perspectives. As a result, every character
acquires unique shadings while she works her way into our psyche. Indeed,
like images in dreams, well-written characters are more vivid than their
real-life counterparts because, no matter how naturalistically they’re
portrayed, at heart characters symbolize the human spirit.

CHARACTER AND AUTHOR
Although characters seem to live in fictional worlds the way people exist in
reality, a story’s cast is as artificial as a ballet troupe—a society
choreographed to meet an author’s purpose.7 And what is that purpose?
Why do writers do this? Why create human facsimiles? Why not spend our
days with friends and family, content in their company?
Because reality is never enough. The mind wants meaning, but reality
offers no clear beginnings, middles, or ends. Stories do. The mind wants
unfettered insight into itself and the secret selves of others, but people wear
masks, inside and out. Characters do not. They enter barefaced and exit
translucent.
Events, in and of themselves, have no meaning. Lightning striking a
vacant lot is pointless; lightning striking a vagrant matters. When an event
adds a character, suddenly nature’s indifference fills with life.
As you create your characters, you naturally gather pieces of humanity
(your sense of self, your sense of people like you yet not like you,
personalities around you that are sometimes strange, sometimes trite,
attractive one day, repulsive the next) to create fictional creatures. Yet you
know full well that the characters you compose are not their real-life
inspirations. Although the people in a writer’s life may spark ideas, like a
mother who loves her children in ways she never loves her husband, an
author knows she loves the characters that grew in her storied garden in
ways she never loves their seeds.
And what do characters need from their creator? Here’s a short list of ten
faculties that equip the writer.
1. Taste
Learning to discriminate between bad and good in other people’s writing is
not difficult, but to see it in your own calls for guts and judgment powered
by an intrinsic disgust with banality and an eye for the vital versus the
lifeless. An artist, therefore, needs a keen sense of distaste.8
Bad writing festers with flaws more grievous than clichéd roles and on-
the-nose dialogue. Hackwork suffers from the moral failings of
sentimentality, narcissism, cruelty, self-indulgence, and, above all, lies that
originated in the writer. Tough-mindedness not only inspires truthful
writing but a truthful life as well. The more you spot these faults in your
own pages and trash them with the repugnance they deserve, the more you
avoid them in life.
Sharp-eyed fictions express the gap between the fantasies that distract us
and the realities they obscure, between illusion and fact.9 Such works
render insights into life as if illuminated from a distant, unseen wisdom. So,
the more you read superior writers and watch excellent films, screen series,
and theatre, the more you widen and deepen your taste.
2. Knowledge
To pen a superior work of fiction, an author must acquire a godlike
knowledge of her story’s setting, history, and cast. Character creation,
therefore, demands a writer’s constant observations of herself and the
humanity around her—all she knows of life. When she senses a lost past,
she can access her most vivid memories. To fill in the blanks between, she
can research the life sciences of psychology, sociology, anthropology, and
politics. When those don’t teach enough, she can buy a ticket to travel,
discover, and explore the unknown firsthand.10
3. Originality
Creative originality calls for insight. An observation may inspire an author,
but to enrich what’s on the surface, she adds her unique way of seeing
what’s not there, what’s beneath, a hidden truth no one else has spotted
before.
More often than not, what’s mistaken for originality is simply the
recycling of a forgotten influence. The notion “This has never been done
before” is rarely true. Rather, it’s a symptom of the writer’s ignorance of
everything other writers have done before she decided to try it herself. Too
often the urge to do something different results in a difference that’s not
only trivial but worsens the telling. Most stabs at innovation fail because
they have in fact been tried before and found hackneyed.
Originality and adaptation are not contradictory, although awards for
original versus adapted work perpetuate this myth. With the exception of
The Tempest, all of Shakespeare’s plays adapt a found story into a new play.
Genuine innovation is a what, not a how—a new thing, not a new way
of doing an old thing. In any medium or genre, a story must generate
expectation, escalate stakes, and create surprising outcomes. That’s given.
Modernism and postmodernism were powerfully original because they
exposed previously unseen subject matter, inverted accepted wisdoms, and
refocused the way we looked at life. Those days are gone. Despite the
stylistic excesses of transformational special effects in film, fragmentation
in literature, and audience participation in theatre, recent decades have seen
no revolutions. Techniques that savage art forms lost whatever teeth they
had long ago. Today, the avant-garde spirit rips into content, not form, using
story to expose the lies the world has learned to live with.
4. Showmanship
Storytelling combines a tightrope walker’s daring with a magician’s gift for
deft concealment and surprising revelation. An author, therefore, is first and
foremost an entertainer. She gives her reader/audience the dual excitement
of the true and the new: first, face-to-face encounters with dangerous truths;
and second, never-seen-before characters who confront them.
5. Awareness of the Reader/Audience
Fiction and reality cause experiences that differ in quality but not in kind. A
reader’s/audience’s response to a character calls on the same attributes of
intelligence, logic, and emotional sensibility that people employ in their
daily lives. The chief difference is that an aesthetic experience has no
purpose beyond itself. Fiction calls for long-term, uninterrupted
concentration that ends with meaningful, emotional satisfaction. Therefore,
the writer must craft all characters with an eye to their moment-by-moment
impact on the reader/audience.
6. Mastery of Form
To want to create a work of art, you have to have seen one. Your original
source of inspiration is not the lives of others, not your life, but the art form
itself. A story is a metaphor for life, a massive symbol that expresses
maximum meaning from minimal material. Your first experience of story
form moved you to fill it with character content—the humanity you find in
yourself and others, the dynamic values you sense in society and culture.11
The problem is this: Form is the conduit for content, but ultimately they
interlock. As we will see in the next chapter, story is character, and
character is story. So before you can master either, you must unlock them.
Characters can be taken out of a story and examined psychologically and
culturally and given a stand-alone meaning. Walter White, for example,
symbolizes corrupt entrepreneurship. But once back inside their story, their
meaning may change greatly. So to begin writing, it seems to me, story
holds the key.
7. Hatred of Clichés
A cliché is an idea or technique that when first invented was so good—so
great, in fact—that people have recycled it again and again and again for
decades.
Knowledge of your art form’s history is a basic necessity; an eye that
spots a cliché when you see one and, more important, when you write one is
an artistic imperative.
For example, the idea that beautiful, young jet-setters enjoying unlimited
cocaine and sex are in fact depressed and miserable is not a revelation.
Thousands of plays, films, novels, and lyrics have sung that tune. The
emptiness of indulgence has been a cliché in both high art and pop culture
ever since F. Scott Fitzgerald’s Daisy and Gatsby.12
If the rich are your subject matter, investigate the multitude of characters
created not only by Fitzgerald but Evelyn Waugh, Noel Coward, Woody
Allen, Whit Stillman, and Tina Fey, and all the films, plays, or television
dramedies that featured songs by Cole Porter sung by Frank Sinatra, up to
and including the HBO series Succession.
8. Moral Imagination
By moral, I mean more than good/evil or right/wrong. I mean all the
positive/negative binaries of human experience, from life/death to love/hate
to justice/injustice to rich/poor to hope/despair to excitement/boredom and
beyond, that sculpt us and our society.
By imagination, I mean more than daydreaming. I mean an author’s full
knowledge of time, place, and character powered by her creative vision.
When a writer imagines the peoplescape of her story’s world, her vision of
values must guide her sense of what is vital, what is trivial.
A writer’s values shape her unique vision of life, of the global landscape
of positive versus negative charges that surround her. What is worth living
for? What is worth dying for? Her answers express her moral imagination,
her ability to mine the binaries of human experience to envision deeper,
more nuanced characters.
My concern is not with Sunday school morality but the value-sensitive
imaginations of writers who create and hone characters. You will find yours
in the core of being that shapes your humanity. What drives you will in turn
drive the creatures you create.
9. An Ideal Self
When not writing, an author can be what writers so often are: a flawed,
troubled soul that others find annoying and difficult. But when an author
sits down to write, a transformation takes place. As she puts her fingers on
the keyboard, she becomes her most intelligent, most sensitive. Her talent,
concentration, and above all honesty are at their maximum pitch. This best
possible self authors her truest insights into character.
10. Self-Knowledge
Here’s how a trio of renowned writers reacted to Sophocles’s dictum
“Know thyself”: “‘Know thyself?’ If I knew myself, I’d run away,” Johann
Wolfgang von Goethe. “A caterpillar who wanted to know itself would
never become a butterfly,” Andre Gide. “Everything I know about human
nature I learned from me,” Anton Chekhov. All three, I’m sure, knew
themselves in depth, but Chekhov was the least cynical and the most clear-
eyed. He knew that we spend our lives essentially alone.
Despite our relationships with the people we love or hate, despite our
observations and researches into society, the solitary truth is that we never
know anyone the way we know ourselves. Until science invents a
technology that lets us live in the consciousness of another human being,
we will always spend our days at a distance, reading the signs in other
people’s faces, sitting behind our eyes in the company of one, essentially
alone.
All fine character creation begins and ends in self-knowledge. No matter
how a writer pictures her essential self—as a secret ego lurking behind a
gallery of social personae or as a never-changing core at the center of
reality’s flux—she is self-contained and unique. From her core of self-
awareness, the writer must extrapolate the inner mutability of the characters
she creates. In other words, each of us owns the only mind we will ever
meet unmasked. Therefore, all fine character creation begins and ends in
self-knowledge.
Yet irony smiles on us, for despite the clear differences between people
—disparities of age, gender, genes, culture—we are far more alike than
different. We all live through the same essential experiences: the joy of
love, the dread of death. So you can be certain that whatever thoughts and
feelings run through your mind, they run through the minds of everybody
else coming down the street toward you, each in their own time, their own
way.
The more you penetrate the mysteries of your own humanity, the more
you perceive the humanity in your characters, and the more they express
your insights into human nature. As a result, your characters echo in the
empathetic reader/audience. What’s more, as people read and watch, they
make discoveries about themselves because your characters grew out of
qualities of you, qualities new to them.
In Chapter Five we’ll explore writing in-character, a technique that turns
your inner life into your character’s inner life, so that your character
becomes someone you know as well as you know yourself.13

A LAST NOTE
Badly written characters show us who other people are not; clichéd
characters show us who other people prefer; unique characters show us who
we prefer; empathetic characters show us who we are.
Because our daily lives don’t permit dangerous satisfactions such as
revenge, we devour the gratifying satisfactions of story. We call on story to
transport us to countless worlds, but the drivers who take us beyond our
mortal reach are characters, and the fuel that powers our imagined travels is
empathy.
The variety of complex characters that centuries of fiction provide
greatly exceeds the range of people we will ever meet and enriches our
insights into those we do. And because we know characters better than
people, we love them in ways we rarely love people. Of course, we don’t
know people, even those closest to us, very well to begin with, so we
shouldn’t be surprised. If, on the other hand, you don’t believe what I just
said, if you don’t feel that the fictional betters the factual, you may want to
reconsider your profession.
2

THE ARISTOTLE DEBATE
Plot Versus Character
The terms plot-driven and character-driven were invented by film critics in
the mid-twentieth century to mark the difference between Hollywood
movies and European cinema—or in their view, between mass
entertainment and artistic sophistication. Soon after, book reviewers began
writing in a similar vein about literary novels versus best sellers. Off-
Broadway originally served as a proving ground for Broadway, but in the
1960s the New York theatre world drew the line between art and money
along Forty-Second Street. This pattern repeated in the English theatre
between tradition-bound stages in the West End of London and the avant-
garde on the Fringe. Years later, U.S. television divided into subscription-
versus advertisement-funded programming, pitting streaming’s character-
driven art for adult audiences against the commercial networks’ plot-driven
entertainment for family viewers.

ARISTOTLE’S RANKINGS
This divide has an ancient pedigree. In his Poetics, Aristotle ranked the six
components of dramatic art from top to bottom in terms of their creative
difficulty and importance to the work as (1) Plot, (2) Character, (3)
Meaning, (4) Dialogue, (5) Music, (6) Spectacle.
He believed that events demand greater artistry to create and impact
audiences with greater power than do characters. His opinion held sway for
two millennia, but beginning with Don Quixote, the novel evolved into the
dominant storytelling medium, and by the end of the nineteenth century
writers about writing reversed Aristotle’s top two, declaring that what the
reader really wants is memorable characters. A plot’s string of events, they
claimed, is simply the writer’s clothesline to display his characters.
This theory conceives of plot as actions and reactions on the physical
and social planes, while it confines character to thoughts and feelings in the
conscious and subconscious spheres. In fact, these four domains are
mutually influential.
When a character witnesses an event, his senses convey it to his mind
instantly, so that the event happens to him internally at virtually the same
moment it happens externally in his world. The reverse is also true: When a
character makes a decision, this internal event becomes external as he puts
it into action. External and internal events flow fluidly through the senses
from level to level, inside to outside and back, each affecting the other.
Restricting the definition of plot to external actions misses the vast majority
of what happens in a human being’s life. The plot-driven versus character-
driven debate is specious and always has been since Aristotle made his list.
Questioning which is creatively more difficult and aesthetically more
significant, plot or character, commits a categorical error. It’s illogical to
ask which of the two is more than the other because they are, in essence, the
same: Plot is character; character is plot. The two are back-to-back sides of
the same storied coin.
A role does not become a character until an event brings his actions and
reactions to life; an incident does not become a storied event until a
character causes and/or experiences its change. A person untouched by
events is a stand-alone, unlived, static portrait best hung on a wall. An
activity without a character is like a rainy day on an ocean—a repetitious,
trivial, uninvolving nonevent. To understand this distinction in depth, we
need to define terms.

CHARACTER, PLOT, EVENT
Character names a fictitious being who either causes events to happen or
reacts when someone or something else causes them, or both.
Plot names a story’s arrangement of events. A plotless story, therefore,
does not exist. If it’s a story, it has a pattern of events, aka a plot; if it’s a
plot, it lays out a pattern of events, aka a story. No matter how brief the tale,
all storytellers plot what happens to whom and thus design events.
As a work of fiction performs through time, it can be told in countless
variations and departures from the classic form: shifts in point of view,
events clustered thematically, events progressed causally, stories within
stories, flashbacks, repetitions, ellipses, the believable, the fantastic—all
depending on what best expresses the writer’s vision. But no matter how a
story’s event design entices curiosity, readers and audiences are ultimately
anchored to the telling through its characters.
The term shared by both definitions is event, so let’s define it with
precision: The dictionary definition of an everyday event is something that
happens. In a story, however, if what happens changes nothing of value, the
event has no meaning. If, for example, a passing breeze rearranges leaves
on a lawn, things change but that event is meaningless because it’s
valueless.
For the storyteller, value is defined as a binary of human experience that
can change its charge from positive to negative or negative to positive:
Life/Death, Justice/Injustice, Pleasure/Pain, Freedom/Slavery, Good/Evil,
Intimacy/Indifference, Right/Wrong, Meaningful/Meaningless,
Human/Inhuman, Unity/Disunity, Beautiful/Ugly, and on goes the virtually
endless list of the polarized changes that charge life with significance. The
art of story, therefore, makes an event meaningful by imbuing it with a
value.
For example, if something happened that caused one character to change
his feelings toward another from love (+) to hate (−), that event becomes
meaningful because the value of Love/Hate changed its charge from
positive to negative. Or the reverse: If an event caused a character’s
finances to pivot from poor (−) to rich (+), that change becomes meaningful
because the value of Poverty/Wealth underwent a movement from negative
to positive.
A storied event, therefore, is a moment of value-charged change in a
character’s life. The cause of this change is either an action taken by a
character, or a reaction by a character to an event outside his control. In
either case, the event reverses the charge of a value at stake in his life.
TWO SIDES / SAME COIN
An event’s two-sides/same-coin double effect becomes vividly clear when
turning points swivel around either revelations or decisions.
By revelation: In the Act Two climax of Chinatown, the protagonist, J.
J. Gittes (Jack Nicholson), accuses Evelyn Mulwray (Faye Dunaway) of
murdering her husband. In reaction, she confesses, not to committing
murder but to incest with her father and giving birth to their daughter. Gittes
instantly realizes that her father, Noah Cross (John Huston) killed his son-
in-law because he wants illicit possession of his granddaughter/daughter.
This revelation of the true killer suddenly reverses the plot from negative to
positive. At the same time, we get a rush of insight into Evelyn—all she has
suffered and her courage to battle her lunatic father.
By decision: At this point Gittes could call the police, give them his
evidence, and stand back while the cops arrest Noah Cross. Instead, he
decides to go after the killer on his own. This choice turns the plot
dangerously negative for the protagonist and simultaneously spotlights his
fatal flaw: blind pride. Gittes is the kind of man who will risk his life rather
than ask for help.
The terms event and character simply name two angles on turning
points. Looking at story from the outside in, we see them as events; from
the inside out we experience them as character. Without events, nothing is
done by or happens to the characters; without characters, no one causes or
reacts to events.
As Henry James put it, “What is character but the determination of
incident? What is incident but the illustration of character? It is an incident
for a woman to stand up with her hand resting on a table and look out at you
in a certain way. If not an incident, I think it hard to say what it is.
Character, in any sense in which we can get at it, is action and action is
plot.”1
Suppose you were writing a story that contained a Henry James–ian
incident: Your protagonist, in great personal jeopardy, knowing that a lie
will save him, stands up, puts his hand on a table, and looks at a woman in a
certain way that expresses a dark, painful truth. His decision and action spin
his life from positive to negative as he suffers the consequences. At the
same time, his choice, his action, and its outcome express his true character:
courageously honest man.
Let’s say that this is the best scene in your story, but, powerful as it is, a
problem arises downstream. As you finish the telling, you realize that your
last act’s climax falls flat, and because your ending fails, all your creative
work from the beginning ultimately fails with it. What to do? You will find
a saving solution in one of two places: character or event.

Event design: You could reverse the turning point. Instead of having
your protagonist tell the truth, he lies to gain power and money. That
rewrite may set up a satisfying climax, but at the same time it radically
reverses his moral core. He’s now a rich but corrupted man. If you like that
character change, problem solved.
Character design: When you step back to study your protagonist’s
psychology, you realize that your climax lacks impact because your
character is so sweet and innocent your ending is unconvincing. So you
darken him morally, and then rewrite him into a tough survivor. How do
you express this change of true character? Redesign events to dramatize his
new shrewd, duplicitous self. If these new turning points set up a strong
payoff at the climax, problem solved.
Once again, for clarity’s sake: A plot event turns a value charge in a
character’s life; a character either acts to cause these events or reacts when
external forces do the same. So to change a character’s nature, you have to
redesign events to express who he has become; to change events, you have
to reinvent your character’s psychology so he will make convincing new
choices to take new actions. Therefore, neither plot nor character can be
more creative or more important.
Why didn’t Aristotle see this? One possible answer may lie in his
admiration for Sophocles’s play Oedipus Rex. Oedipus investigates a
horrific crime only to discover that he is both its victim and its villain.
Events beyond his control, events he does everything to escape but cannot,
ruthlessly propel his fate and crush him.
Gripped by the tragic beauty of Oedipus Rex, far and away the finest
play of his era, Aristotle implored other playwrights to equal its sublime
power. So it’s possible that Sophocles’s portrayal of the irresistible force of
fate moved the philosopher to overvalue events and undervalue character.
A second and more likely reason, however, is aesthetic convention: The

playwrights of Athens did not write with an awareness of subtext. In fact,
actors wore masks to express their character’s essence. If one character lied
to another, the audience would of course sense an unspoken subtext, but for
the most part, characters said what they meant in full. Aristotle, therefore,
gave what happens more weight than to whom it happens.
Today’s authors, guided by centuries of psychological insights, separate
true character from Characterization.

CHARACTERIZATION VERSUS TRUE

CHARACTER
Characterization: All observable traits and outer behaviors—the
composite of age, gender, race, speech and gestures, job and home, dress
and fashion, attitudes and personality—in short, the masks or personae a
character wears as he carries out his relationships with other people. These
details provide clues to a character’s identity, but readers and audiences
know that appearance is not reality, that characters are not who they seem to
be.
True character: A role’s unseen, inner nature—his deepest motivations
and rock-bottom values. When confronted by life’s greatest pressures, this
core reveals itself in the choices he makes and the actions he takes in
pursuit of his most consuming desires. These decisions and deeds express
his core identity.
Outer traits of characterization anchor a character’s credibility, while the
inner qualities of the true character shape the character and his future. If the
reader/audience does not believe that he would do the things he does, say
the things he says, pursue the desires he pursues, the storytelling fails. His
essential self makes the choices and takes the actions that act out a story’s
happenings and set up its future events. True character and characterization
combine to create a believable role in a believable telling—true in ancient
times as well as today. But because the Poetics did not separate their
functions, the plot versus character debate became an apples/oranges
fallacy.
Characters are designed to either solve or fail to solve the problems they
face; stories are designed to express the traits and qualities of characters as
they struggle with their problems. A plot’s events are what its characters do;
characters are the vehicles who cause and/or carry out a plot’s events. When
we weigh the two, they balance each other perfectly. For well over a
century, author-scholars from Henry James to David Lodge have
proclaimed this logical interdependence. So why has the character-
driven/plot-driven argument dragged on into the twenty-first century?
Because what looks like an aesthetic debate actually masks the cultural
politics of taste, class, and, most of all, money. The phrase character-driven
is code for “a superior work of art, made not for profit but love, best
interpreted by academic critics, appreciated only by an intellectual elite, and
ideally financed by public funds,” versus plot-driven as code for the
opposite: “a trivial work, written by hacks, laced with clichés, aimed at the
undereducated, too trite to be of critical interest, and made for corporate
profit.”
The belief that giving more emphasis to what happens than to whom it
happens causes second-rate art is, quite obviously, absurd. Homer’s
Odyssey, Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream, Ernest Hemingway’s
The Old Man and the Sea, Stanley Kubrick’s A Clockwork Orange, and (if
we lower the snobbery volume) Michael Frayn’s farce Noises Off are all
plot-driven masterpieces. On the other hand, how many superficial,
overwritten, underexpressed, characterization-thick tortures on page, stage,
and screen have you suffered through? In truth, neither tack guarantees
anything.
Politics aside, the deep difference between these two components lies in
the story’s primal source of cause and effect. The terms character-driven
and plot-driven make creative sense only when they name a story’s
dominant causality, not its aesthetic value. When your work-in-progress
stalls, you will find a creative solution by asking the big question: What
makes things happen?
Plot-driven stories put major turning points, especially the inciting
incident, beyond the characters’ control. More often than not, these
happenings deliver a negative impact and come from one of three levels of
conflict: (1) natural causes: dire weather, disease, fire, earthquakes, alien
invasions, and other “acts of God”; (2) social causes: crime, war, man-made
disasters, private and public corruption, acts of racial, gender, or class
injustice, and the like; (3) chance: a winning lottery ticket, an automobile
accident, the genes one is born with, and, most of all, blind luck—all the
coincidences, good or bad, that flow through these levels.
Character-driven stories do the opposite: They put major events in the
characters’ hands. In these tellings, the choices and actions the characters
make and take cause what happens. Not chance, not overpowering global or
natural forces, but personal choices, powered by a free will, drive the
telling.
Therefore, the six key differences between plot-driven and character-
driven stories are:
1. Causality
In the plot-driven story, the forces that trigger key turning points emanate
from outside or beyond the characters’ reach: Criminals commit crimes,
dictators declare war, plagues sweep the world, aliens invade the earth, the
sun falls from the sky.
The character-driven story reverses that. Its dominant causalities stem
from conscious and subconscious energies that move a character to want
what he wants, choose what he chooses, and act the way he acts: He falls in
love, commits a crime, blows the whistle on his boss, runs away from
home, believes someone’s lie, searches for the truth.
2. Identity
As we’ll see in chapters that follow, desire helps shape a character’s
identity. A plot-driven story calls for a protagonist driven by a desire that
originated outside of himself; a character-driven story favors a protagonist
who follows a desire that originated within himself.
3. Values
In a purely plot-driven story, the protagonist struggles to give the world
what it lacks, expressed in values such as Peace/War, Justice/Injustice,
Wealth/Poverty, Brotherhood/Selfhood, Health/Disease, and the like. In a
purely character-driven story, the protagonist struggles to fulfill what he
personally lacks, expressed in values such as Love/Hate,
Maturity/Immaturity, Truth/Lie, Trust/Distrust, Hope/Despair, and the like.
4. Depth
Plot-driven genres rarely develop the subconscious or irrational in their
characters. Ethan Hunt, for example, obeys one conscious, logical desire: to
repair a broken, unjust world. He and his IMF team therefore invent a plan,
cleverly execute its steps, fix what’s wrong, and restore justice. If in the
midst of all this, Ethan were also haunted by an unresolved childhood
trauma, his high-speed fun would sour faster than old milk.
Plot-driven stories enrich the telling with details drawn from their social
and physical settings. Imagery from mountaintops to tuxedos, sounds from
birdsongs to machinery fascinate the eye and ear.
Character-driven genres layer their tellings with psychological
contradictions. They bury unknown desires within a character, and then
bring these impulses into conflict with his rationalizations. As these
character-focused tales reach into the depths, they at least touch, if not
invade, the subconscious.
In Tennessee Williams’s A Streetcar Named Desire, the play’s
protagonist, Blanche DuBois, repeatedly says that all she wants is to live
happily in this world. But the brutality and ugliness of her ghetto life make
that impossible. In truth, she subconsciously wants the opposite and
ultimately achieves that deep desire at the play’s climax as she escapes from
reality into insanity.
Depth of character is a measure of inner complexity, but a character
cannot have greater complexity than the forces of antagonism he confronts
in life. How can we sense his depths if his conflicts don’t expose them?
5. Curiosity
Character-driven works minimize physical and social conflicts to focus on
personal wars within and between characters. The question “What will this
character do?” grips the reader’s or audience’s curiosity. The answer, when
well written, is unpredictable and delivers sudden surprise.
Shakespeare, the grand master of psychological realism, breathed a spirit
of unpredictability into the hearts of all his principal characters. His
romantic couples, for example, range in tone from the clownish Touchstone
and Audrey (As You Like It) to the sophisticated Beatrice and Benedick
(Much Ado About Nothing) and the tragic Antony and Cleopatra, and yet all
these lovers jolt our expectations and amaze even themselves.
Touchstone doesn’t understand why he wants to marry Audrey but does
so on impulse; Beatrice shocks Benedick when she asks him to commit
murder; the heroic Marc Antony, in the midst of a raging sea battle,
suddenly turns coward and chases after the woman he loves. Whether
comic, romantic, or tragic, stunned by their own impulsiveness, they all
look at themselves and ask, “What have I done?”
Because plot-driven works eliminate inner conflicts, they must instead
polarize their principals socially: Action heroes right injustices and save
victims; action villains commit atrocities and kill the innocent. Because we
know who they are and what they will do, these works compel curiosity by
inventing radical weaponry that makes us wonder, “How will they do it?”
DC and Marvel superheroes, such as Wonder Woman, Superman,
Spider-Man, and Storm, command either magical or biological powers in
unique and fascinating ways to save or protect life; antiheroes, such as
Deadpool, Loki, Black Widow, and Catwoman, also command unique
powers, but to rule over or destroy life.
6. Freedom Versus Fate
Freedom and Fate are elusive but ever-present beliefs. Belief in Freedom
suggests a future that’s unknown, a mysterious terminus, one of many
possible destinations that will always be hidden until life’s last moment.
Fate or Destiny, on the other hand, feels as if an invisible, inevitable,
karmic force shapes our lives to an unavoidable event at the end point of
our days. To the ancient Greeks, Fate seemed so real they personified it into
three goddesses. To this day, people still use the phrase “the Hand of Fate.”
The concepts of fate and freedom intertwine with the crafting of story in
fascinating ways. When a story begins, the reader/audience looks toward a
future where everything seems possible; the telling seems free to travel in a
thousand, even random, directions in pursuit of its destiny. But once a story
climaxes and we look back to the beginning, we realize that the path the
telling took was inevitable, fated. These two viewpoints play out differently
in plot-driven and character-driven stories.
At the inciting incident of an exclusively plot-driven action story,
characters pursue either a positive or a negative destiny. At the climax, now
that readers and audiences grasp the characters’ natures and tactics, they see
that the telling had to happen exactly the fated way it did. Predetermined
people collide in predetermined ways. Heroes do selfless deeds to satisfy a
need for altruism: It’s who they are. Villains do sadistic deeds to feed their
lust for power: It’s who they are. The rigid natures of these monocharacters
drive them to their fate.
Contrary-wise, when a purely character-driven work begins, we sense
that the future hinges on contradictory forces dueling within complex
characters as each struggles to make choices and take actions in the pursuit
of desire.
In Hernan Diaz’s In the Distance, for example, the novel’s protagonist,
Hakan, spends a lifetime searching for his lost brother in every way
humanly possible. At the story’s climax, as we look back to the beginning,
we once again sense inevitability, but in this case, it was due to
contradictory forces at war within the central character. His choices during
pressure-filled turning points express his essential nature, but the sense of
fate seems less inevitable. The telling could have gone a hundred different
ways because Hakan was always free to choose a different path.
In all stories, the sense of fate versus freedom depends on where we
stand in the course of the telling. At the inciting incident, we imagine the
freedom of countless possible destinies; at climax, we sense inevitability…
to a greater or lesser degree. In truth, nothing has any plans for us; fate has
no goddesses, no hands. It’s simply the mirage that appears when we gaze
back on events through retrospective time.
MELDING PLOT AND CHARACTER
These two treatments of fate and freedom are at the extremes of plot-driven
and character-driven tellings. Life, on the other hand, flows through a
complex of reasons. Fine storytellers seldom choose one source of causality
exclusively over another.

BALANCED CAUSES
Most authors seek a balance that mixes motivated choices with unmotivated
happenstance. They blend events from both inside and outside the
characters’ control because no matter what causes what to happen, when it
does, characters must react to change. Once an accident smashes into life, it
immediately becomes a test of character for the survivors.
Shakespeare began his every play plot-driven. He worked either from
histories recorded by English, Greek, or Scandinavian chroniclers such as
Holinshed, Plutarch, and Saxo Grammaticus, or from fictional plots
invented by other playwrights, most often Italians. As a result, sword fights
and suicides, ghosts and witches, shipwrecks and wars, as well as boy-
meets-girl-disguised-as-boy were among his favorite motifs. He then
reshaped these tales into his own unique event designs, inventing brilliant
protagonists and supporting casts to act them out.
The same was true, for example, of Joseph Conrad, who created grand,
plot-driven adventures—An Outcast of the Islands, Heart of Darkness, Lord
Jim, Nostromo, The Secret Agent—but by the final page they feel, like
Shakespeare’s plays, character-driven.
In his novel Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship, Johann Wolfgang von
Goethe warned his fellow fiction writers that random external forces are
just as vital to the artist as thought-provoked conflicts storming inside a
character’s mind. He urged a balance of causalities, hoping to offset the
German Sturm und Drang propensity to reduce all storytelling to the
emotional extremes of abnormal psychology.2
Consider the problem of causal balance in the most plot-driven genre of
all: the war story. Homer’s Iliad, progenitor of all combat epics, tilts the
balance toward enormous military and physical forces, lashed by the whims
of bickering gods; whereas Nicholas Monsarrat’s World War II classic, The
Cruel Sea, leans in the opposite direction, focusing on psychology. As naval
battles on the raging North Atlantic pound their ship, captain and crew war
with fear and must choose, moment by moment, how to react and act in the
face of death. More recently, Karl Marlantes’s Vietnam War novel,
Matterhorn, strikes a horrific balance between furious jungle combat that
rips the mind apart and the power of moral character to counterattack,
survive, and hold the mind together.
Character-driven stories do not necessarily dramatize complex
psychologies, nor do plot-driven stories require clichéd heroes and villains.
For example, Boys Don’t Cry features a one-dimensional protagonist
surrounded by hard-asses in pickup trucks, and yet the film is decidedly
character-driven because no matter how narrow-minded they may be, the
antagonists control what happens. On the other hand, Joseph Conrad laced
his protagonist of Lord Jim with psychological complexity, but then lets the
social forces surrounding Jim infect his guilt-ridden angst, limit his
reactions, and eventually overwhelm him.
However balance is struck, at the end of the day the answer to all plot
questions is found in character. Never ask open-ended questions such as
“What happens?” Rather, “What happens to my character? How will it
happen to him? Why does it happen to him and not to her? What changes
his life? Why does it change in that particular way? What will happen in his
future?” Direct all plot questions into your characters’ lives. Otherwise,
they’re pointless.3

UNIFIED CAUSES
No matter a story’s balance of outer and inner causality, the ideal outcome
unifies character and plot in the mind of the reader/audience. A character’s
change of mind about whom he loves could deliver an impact equal to or
surpassing a soldier betraying his comrades in battle. In both cases, the
event not only turns a value charge but simultaneously reveals the role’s
true character.
In fine writing, no matter the genre, external events cause inner changes
that expose and alter true character; inner desires drive choices and actions
that cause external events. The two, character and plot, become a seamless
one.

A LAST NOTE
If you’re wondering where your story stands in the Aristotle debate—plot-
driven, character-driven, or a balance of the two—simply list all your
scenes and divide their turning points into those caused by character choice
versus those caused by forces beyond their reach. Whichever way your
telling leans, no one source of causality is more inspirational than another.
Eventually, the way things happen will argue it out somewhere in the
middle of your mind.
3

AN AUTHOR PREPARES
Before we delve into character creation, let’s use this chapter to examine the
foundational beliefs that underpin a writer’s creative work. How do you
view the nature of humanity? The influence of culture? The responsibility
of authorship?
AN AUTHOR’S VISION OF CREATIVITY
Creativity as Madness
The ancients often portrayed creativity as a trancelike state verging on
madness. Modern comedies, such as Tom Stoppard’s satire of James Joyce
in Travesties, abet these myths when they characterize artists as neurotics
caught between the obsession to act out their fantasies and the
embarrassments they trigger.
Creativity as Fantasy
In Freud’s more compassionate view, creativity begins with the need to
escape reality. Because pleasure is constantly contradicted by its
consequences; because cake tastes sweet but rots your teeth; because
romance puts a smile in your heart, then breaks it; because hopes rarely
come true, human beings fantasize. In childhood, we learn to escape life’s
frictions by retreating into our imaginations, dreaming up adventures
starring ourselves. In adulthood, these daydreams become rather luxurious.
All human beings do this. Creativity, however, takes fantasy a critical step
further.
Artists also dream as if scenarios, but then transport them out of their
imaginations and into films, novels, plays, and streaming series. Although
their tellings often portray hurtful experiences, the fictional realm poses no
actual threat, so character pain simply transfigures into reader/audience
pleasure.
Creativity as Discovery
Neuroscience, in a step toward divining creativity, has mapped the brain’s
hemispheres and identified their separate powers: The left brain executes
the logics of deduction and induction, linear thinking, mathematics, pattern
recognition, and language. The right brain commands the logics of causality
and analogy, visualization, auditory imagination, nonverbal expression,
intuition, rhythm, feelings, and moods.1
Consider, for example, Carl Sandburg’s poem “Fog”:
The fog comes
on little cat feet.
It sits looking
over harbor and city
on silent haunches
and then moves on.
When imagining this poem, images of “cat” and “fog” floated through
Sandberg’s mind. While his left brain saw two unrelated examples of
biology and weather, his right brain noted a connection only a creative mind
would spot and suddenly merged the two into an utterly new third thing,
linked by a sense of stillness. As we read the poem, the poignant beauty of
his metaphor enriches our inner life with a never-felt-before sensation. The
unearthing of an unseen likeness is the most beautiful gift one mind can
give another.
Creativity is, in essence, the discovery of the third thing. Talent is a
duality-seeking sensor that spots hidden analogies between things that
already exist. Then, in a creative flash, artists change the known into the
new, melding two things into a never-seen-before fusion.
In which direction does creativity flow to discover the third thing? Right
brain to left or left brain to right? Particular to universal or universal to
particular? Answer: Genius flows in both directions—at times alternating
slowly, at others instantaneously—as reason and imagination inspire each
other.2
For example, consider Fantasy. When creating magical characters,
writers often begin with archetypes (Wise Man, Warrior, Earth Mother),
then bring them down to earth to walk and talk among the common folk (a
movement from conceptual to actual). Or when writing a Social Drama, a
writer might start with an actual case taken from the news, then design a
cast to express the battle between Justice and Injustice on a grand, symbolic
scale (a progression from actual to conceptual). Compare, for example, two
films from 2017: Wonder Woman, in which a goddess descends from
heaven to fight in a human war, and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing,
Missouri, in which a gift shop owner’s revenge for her daughter’s murder
becomes a symbolic act.
Like the god Hermes, creativity is a wing-footed messenger that flies
back and forth between two worlds—rational/irrational, left brain / right
brain—taming real-life chaos with aesthetic order.
Like a child going out to play, creativity leaves reason at home and
saddles up free association for long galloping rides. When two random
thoughts suddenly collide and merge into a third idea, the right brain seizes
this gem and hands it over to the left, so the writer can use her conscious
skills to fit this shiny piece of originality inside a sketch-in-progress,
reshaping it into a memorable character.
TWO THEORIES OF CHARACTER

CREATION
How this process unfolds is subject for debate. Do writers invent characters
or give them birth? Are characters conscious creations or subconscious
manifestations?
Invention
Some writers start with an inspiration for a story, then brainstorm and
improvise characters with traits and dimensions that fulfill the promise of
their original vision.
Here’s Suzanne Collins, author of The Hunger Games: “One night I was
lying in bed, very tired, channel surfing. I flipped through images of reality
shows where young people competed for a million dollars or a bachelor or
whatever. Then I saw footage from the Iraq War. These two things fused
together in an unsettling way, and that was the moment I got the idea for
Katniss’s story.”
Novelist Patrick McGrath often finds his story spark in intriguing real-
life behaviors, perhaps something as simple as an odd tone of voice or a hat
worn at an eye-catching angle. He then asks the question: “What kind of
person would talk in that voice and wear their hat that way?” Fingers on his
keyboard, he merges his creative talents with a lifetime of observations and
personal knowledge of human impulses, transforming the intrigue of a trait
into a psychologically compelling character and story.
Giving Birth
Other writers see themselves as a kind of bystander, a conduit for
personalities finding their way into a yet-to-be-written story. Their
characters seem to live an independent existence in another realm, then pass
through a mental birth canal into the author’s awareness.
Elizabeth Bowen, in her book Notes on Writing a Novel, says that notion
of character creation is misleading. Characters, she feels, preexist. They
reveal themselves slowly to the novelist’s perception—as might a fellow
traveler chatting in a dimly lit railway carriage.
Elizabeth Strout, author of the Pulitzer Prize–winning novel Olive
Kitteridge, said that her characters never echo her personal experiences, as
readers often assume. Rather, they come to life mysteriously, organically, in
stray scenes or bits of dialogue and then, through a process she finds
difficult to explain, eventually coalesce. She scribbles snippets on scraps of
paper and lets the scraps accrue. Discarding some, keeping others, she waits
until “characters do their little things and I keep what’s truthful.”
Novelist Anne Lamott noted, “I’ve always believed that these people
inside me—the characters—know who they are and what they’re about and
what happens, but they need me to help get it down on paper because they
don’t type.”
For most writers, the day-in-day-out work of role creation calls on both
modes—surprises from the subconscious (giving birth) and improvisation
while pacing a room (invention). With each new character, the writer
juggles all sources of inspiration, trying to get the balance just right.
There’s mystery in creativity, no doubt, but the claim that a character
refuses to do what her writer wants her to do strikes me as literary
narcissism. Would a composer claim that a chord she wants to play refuses
to sound itself? Would a painter claim that the color red has a mind of its
own? Certain writers, hoping to make themselves mysterious, want us to
believe that writing is dreamlike, that authors simply surrender to native
impulses, that they are conduits for instinctive forces beyond their control.
This romance has always sounded a bit phony, a bit pretentious.
Suppose, like a character created by Woody Allen or Luigi Pirandello,
one of your roles stepped out of your telling and into reality. I don’t mean
into the fantastic realities of The Purple Rose of Cairo or Six Characters in
Search of an Author; I mean into actuality. Suppose this character wanted to
write her story. Suppose she took over your keyboard. Then suppose this
gal discovers that she has no talent. Where would you go from there?
Characters are works of art, not artists. They manifest in an author’s
mind and will do exactly what she imagines them doing, although in often
surprising ways. Being surprised by your own ideas is a daily experience
for the talented writer. The subconscious mind absorbs an artist’s direct
experience of life and factual researches, as well as the artist’s dreams and
imaginings, then stirs all this material into new forms to be sent back to the
conscious mind. This work goes on out of sight until suddenly,
unexpectedly, insights into behavior and radical fusions of character traits
take the writer by surprise. These flashes of genius result from
subconscious churnings that go on behind the artist’s awareness while she
strains against the harness of craft.
Like the Lamaze method, creativity gives birth in a wide-awake world.
No mystical spirit, no daughter of Zeus will descend from Olympus to
inspire you. Writing will be what it always has been: giving breath to what
you already know.

CREATIVE HUNGER
An artist amasses scraps and smidgeons of knowledge over a lifetime of
learning, experiencing, and imagining, all swirling in the subconscious
mind. A talented right brain gathers random bits, spots links between them,
unites two into one, and then passes these creations to the left brain for use.
With that, however, arises the artist’s persistent problem: Because you can
create only from what’s already in your mind, your work is strictly limited
by the contents of your unthought thoughts.
The less you know and experience, the less likely your talent will
generate originalities; contrariwise, the greater your understanding and
insight, the more likely your talent will discover new ideas. An ignorant but
talented writer may manage pieces of brief beauty, but authorship of
complex full-length works demands a breadth and depth of knowing.
The moment your inspiration provides an intriguing but unfamiliar
character, you suddenly realize that what you know is not enough. It never
is. For your talent to fight above its weight, it needs to bulk up on
knowledge. An author is not a pretender, not a literary fake, but someone
with wide, deep awareness, someone with the cerebral power to punch
home the truth. For that reason, writers of one-of-a-kind characters
underpin their creativity with research.
Suppose one night you had this dream: A family dressed in white lab
coats feverishly frets over tables filled with a dazzling array of test tubes.
Something about this scene wakes you in a sweat. The next morning you
start making notes in pursuit of this mysterious family. And what’s in your
notes? Questions demanding answers:
Who are these characters? Mother? Father? Son? Daughter? Are they
scientists or saboteurs? What is their specific task? To create or destroy? Or
do figures in lab coats symbolize something so personal it has nothing to do
with science? Whichever way you answer, new questions will rise up to
demand answers you may or may not have. Without a reservoir of unique
knowledge, you can only imitate other writers. So how can you create a
fascinating cast of original characters?
Start by filling files with everything you know about the characters and
their world. You may think you know, but you don’t know you know until
you can write it down. Words spelled out on a page pull you out of self-
deception and into reality, pointing the way to creative investigation. For if
you find you cannot put your knowledge on paper, it means only one thing:
It’s time to learn.
THE FOUR RESEARCHES THAT FEED

CREATIVITY
Research travels down four roads: personal, imagined, factual, and actual.
1. Personal Research
Your memory collects all the meaningful emotional experiences you have
undergone in both reality and fiction. Over time, the origins of these two
sources begin to blur because memory stores them in the same mental vault.
That’s why we often act as if what actually happened to us were a story and
as if stories actually happened to us. The result? We know far more than we
think we know… if we take pains to explore our past.
Inventorying memory is the first and most fundamental form of
research. When you struggle to bring truth to light, simply ask, “What do I
know directly from life that would help me create these characters?”
Let’s say that you’re a female writer composing a story that revolves
around a patriarchal family, and you envision the son rebelling against his
punishing father. How could memory help you create these characters and
make this rebellion scene surprising, revealing, and cliché free?
Think back to your childhood. You were no doubt disciplined but
perhaps never severely. Nonetheless, you reacted against your parent’s
rules. The dynamic of punishment and rebellion, with its core emotions of
pain and anger, is universal. Ask yourself: What’s the worst emotional pain
I’ve ever suffered? What’s the angriest I’ve ever been? What did I do in
pain? In anger?
Re-create these scenes from your past and write them down in a vivid,
diary-like way. Focus on the inner sensations of your emotions and their
manifestations in physical behavior—what you saw, what you heard, what
you felt, and, most important, what you said and did. Express these images
and actions in language that makes your palms sweat and your heart pound
as if it were happening again.
Now go back to your characters. Using your remembrances as a guide,
imagine how your past experience might transfer, transform, or even
reverse into theirs.
2. Imaginative Research
Memory takes whole events from the past and re-creates them in the
present. Imagination, on the other hand, takes something that happened to
you when you were five and couples it with something that happened to you
when you were twenty-five. It takes an item you read in the news and pairs
it with a dream you had one night, blends both of them with words you
heard on a street corner, and finally ribbons all three inside an image you
saw in a film. Your imagination uses the power of analogy to invent today’s
wholes out of bits of the past.
So, before your father and son begin to defy and dominate each other,
simply bring them to mind. See them, hear them. Walk around them 360
degrees. Don’t make lists of their traits, analyze their motives, or put words
in their mouths. Not yet. Instead, take them for a long walk through your
imagination.
In this early stage you’re trying to gain an overall impression, the kind
you might take away after chatting with someone at a party. But once you
decide that a character deserves creation, you will have to submerge your
imagination in much deeper waters.
3. Book-Bound Research
If you were to write about a conflicted father and son, you could draw on
families you’ve lived in, families you’ve observed, and all those you might
imagine. But no matter how familiar the subject, you will soon find that
memory and imagination take you only so far. The knowledge you have at
the beginning of a project is rarely enough to finish it. To that you must add
book-bound learning.
If you read penetrating works on the psychology and sociology of the
parent-child relationship, taking notes as if you were doing a thesis, two
powerful things would happen:
1. You would discover your family in all the families under study,
confirming the truth or untruth of everything you know. You would see that
parents and children in differing cultures undergo common pressures and
move through similar stages. Each family reacts and adapts in its own
special way, but human beings are far more alike than different. Therefore,
if your writing rings true, your particular will become universal as people
recognize their personal household in your fictional clan. In other words,
your writing will find its readers or audiences.
2. Insights you could never discover on your own will leap off those
pages. As what you learn melds with what you know, creative choices flood
the mind, one-of-a-kind choices that help you win the war on clichés.
4. Grounded Research
Your father-son showdown needs a setting. You may imagine them as
equestrians, bickering as they practice for a dressage competition; or under
their horse trailer, arguing as they fix a broken hitch; or on the highway
home, yelling about who’s to blame when the trailer comes loose. Three
promising scenes, but you’ve never witnessed any of them.
Now, like a documentary filmmaker, locate these scenes in the real
world so you can watch what happens, talk to people who live these events,
and take notes until you master your subject. Never finish writing anything
until you feel that you have gone deeper into your subject than anyone who
has written about such things before, that you have become an absolute
authority on your characters and their settings.
AN AUTHOR’S VISION OF HUMAN NATURE
Original characters grow out of an original perception of humanity, and so
every fine writer develops her personal theory of what makes people do the
things they do in the ways they do them. There is no recipe for this; artists
are not necessarily orderly or disciplined. So every writer must piece her
concepts into a singular vision her own way.
Your personal theory will then flow into your characters, influencing
their sense of meaning and purpose, what they ought to do, what they must
never do, what they ought to strive for or against, what they may hope to
build or destroy, what vision of love and the relationships they work
toward, what social changes they want to make, what choices and actions
they want to take.
How your theory takes shape will depend on how you see mankind. Do
you believe in a primal human nature shared by all or a plasticity that’s
molded by parental, economic, and cultural forces? Does human nature stay
the same from person to person, or differ from men to women? Culture to
culture? Class to class? Self to others?
To help you test your personal theories against some of history’s more
prominent beliefs, the following section is divided into two opposite points
of view on one grand question, “Why do human beings do the things they
do?”
This duality argues the nature-versus-nurture debate: What matters
most? The genes and capacities a person was born with—her intrinsic
nature? Or the way she was raised and acculturated—her extrinsic
nurturing? In other words, who gets credit for humanity’s successes? And
who takes the blame for its relentless failures?
THE TWO GRAND THEORIES
When humankind began to think in depth about itself, it developed beliefs
to make sense of chaos. These master creeds tend to split into two
contradictory points of view on why human beings do the things they do.
They take either the inside-out subjective, intrinsic view of the self, or the
outside-in objective, extrinsic angle of society. In other words, nature versus
nurture.
Indian
Let’s start with two beliefs from India:
Intrinsic
Buddhism teaches that no unchanging soul or permanent identity exists
within a human being. Rather, when we hear our thoughts, what we mistake
for the “me” who thinks them, for a conscious self, is in fact a mirage, a
nonself. In short, reality exists but the self is an illusion.
Extrinsic
Hinduism proposes the opposite belief: The self exists but reality is an
illusion. The ground for what is is unknown and unknowable. Maya, the
power of illusion, gives form to formlessness but conceals and distorts the
source. The world we experience with our senses exists but as a pale
imitation of the ultimate reality that hides behind Maya’s illusions. This
realm is unexplainable because language itself is a by-product of Maya.
Greek
Greek philosophy, developing at about the same time, contradicted both of
these beliefs:
Intrinsic
Socrates, in contradiction to Buddhism, argued that the self, far from being
an illusion, sits at the center of existence. “The unexamined life is not worth
living,” he taught, therefore, “know thyself.” How can we hope for wisdom
of the world that surrounds us until we come to terms with the world inside
us? How can we understand other human beings until we perceive the
humanity within ourselves?
Extrinsic
Aristotle, in contradiction to Hinduism, believed that the world is both real
and knowable. At heart, we are political animals and our natural home is
society. Fulfillment consists in the active, public exercise of our finest
faculties aimed at the betterment of others. The well-lived life displays
virtue, excellence, and distinctively rational thought in a like-minded
community, extended over a lifetime.
Chinese
Chinese philosophy parallels both the Greek and the Indian:
Intrinsic
Taoism, like Socrates and Buddha, looked out on reality from within the
self. This philosophy emphasizes living in harmony with the substance and
patterns of the natural, rather than social, world. Taoism does not call for
elaborate public rituals, but rather simplicity, spontaneity, compassion, and
humility—behavior in accordance with the inner spirit of nature. Taoism
teaches that mastering others requires force, while mastering the self
requires strength; knowing others is wisdom, while knowing yourself is
enlightenment.
Extrinsic
Confucius, like Aristotle and Hinduism, believed that well-being depends
on a well-ordered society. Confucianism takes society’s point of view to
emphasize public morality, family loyalty, ancestor veneration, and a strict
hierarchy in which elders are respected by their children, husbands by their
wives, and in all cases, justice prevails.
Nineteenth Century
Two thousand, five hundred years later, philosophy remained split along the
same divide:
Extrinsic
Karl Marx, like Aristotle, believed that social forces determine
consciousness. Like Buddha, Marx felt that a fixed self does not exist: “All
of history is a continuous transformation of human nature.”
Intrinsic
Sigmund Freud reversed Marx. In his theory, the subconscious mind
commanded the center of the universe; social structures beyond the family
are irrelevant. His model of inner life comprised three components: id (the
source of life’s energy or libido), ego (the self or sense of identity), and
superego (the conscience). Psychoanalysts since Freud have argued about
which, if any, of these three components is the true self.
Twentieth Century
Extrinsic
In the mid-twentieth century, anthropologist Joseph Campbell invented his
radical theory of myth. He took Carl Jung’s belief in subconscious
primordial archetypes and cast them as roles in an all-purpose story.
Campbell claimed that his monomyth had been passed through the ages
from culture to culture, when in fact it was more invention than legend.3
Belief in this monomyth led many writers to reduce action characters to
dimensionless clichés.
Intrinsic
Psychologist William James viewed inner life as an ongoing contradiction:
At times the private self seems like a solid inner awareness, but then
daydreams and confusions liquefy consciousness into ever-changing
streams of images and impressions. James wondered, “How can it be that
each of us has both a sense of an ongoing singular identity, plus a sense of
the very different selves we used to be?” How can we be the one person we
know and all the former selves that litter our memories? These Jamesian
paradoxes help inspire the authorship of complex characters.
Twenty-First Century
In the most recent decades, the polarized dialogue on human nature took
this form:
Extrinsic
Critical Theory, aka postmodernism, is a nurture-based system that sees the
mind as a socially conditioned organ. Therefore, the use of one culture’s
subjective beliefs to judge another culture’s behaviors and values is bigoted.
This conviction went so far as to reject the scientific method itself—
evidence gathering, experimentation, rational deduction—as biased and
culturally skewed.
Intrinsic
Cognitive Science, the counterpoint to Critical Theory, grew out of
linguistics, IT, and computer research. In this nature-based theory, the mind
is a biological computer designed by evolution. CS believes that once we
decipher the brain’s codes and networks, the ultimate causes of human
behavior will, thanks to science, be completely understood.
My sense of this intrinsic/extrinsic debate is that life always stirs some of
both, but the quality and quantity of influence between genes and culture
varies widely. More importantly, however, none of history’s belief systems
contemplates the impact of coincidence.
Consider the research done on identical twins: Two people born
genetically the same will in time take on distinctively different
personalities. Whether they are raised together in the same family or apart
in different families, they keep certain similarities but do not remain
identical. From twin to twin, therefore, neither nature nor nurture makes the
key difference. What does? Randomness.
Beginning with the accident of birth, haphazard collisions of worldly
forces become a way of life for every human being: A child’s genes
interplay with the often impulsive behaviors of parents and siblings; a
culture not of her choosing bends and shapes her; she is at the mercy of her
teacher-by-teacher education; the same is true of her religious life service
by service; games won and lost; her personal one-of-a-kind encounters with
corporate politics, sending her career up and down the pyramid of power;
and finally the physical environment up to and including the weather. Sun-
browned kids left to run wild under blue skies are not the same as sun-
starved kids raised in a rainy clime, watching nature programs on TV.
Which direction her life takes—up, down, or neither—turns on luck as
much as any other factor. Once chance has done its thing, the character
reacts. In reaction to coincidence, the forces of nature and nurture finally
come into play.
THREE KEYS TO AUTHORSHIP
Take from this survey of beliefs what you will or reject them all. It matters
not so long as your insights into humanity go deeper than common
experience and routine schooling. To develop your personal theory, focus
on a trio of faculties within yourself: Moral Imagination, Logical
Implication, and Self-Knowledge. The final, fundamental preparation for
writing is to focus your unique talents on these three conundrums. Solving
them will give you a broader, more reflective understanding of why your
characters do the things they do.
1. Moral Imagination
Moral Imagination means a sensitivity to life’s values, an ability to
recognize shifting charges (positive versus negative), shifting levels
(conscious versus subconscious), shifting intensities (subtle versus overt)—
the changing qualities that compel and propel people as they decide and act
(or vacillate and procrastinate) in their efforts to confront (or evade)
conflict.
To create a complex character, a writer’s moral imagination peers into a
character’s inner realms to identify and measure the values at play in her
personal and private lives—Maturity versus Immaturity, Honesty versus
Dishonesty, Generosity versus Selfishness, Kindness versus Cruelty—all
the dynamic charges of human nature.
To create a complex setting, a writer clashes the positive and negative
charges of its social and physical environment—what’s good versus what’s
evil, vital versus trivial, just versus unjust, meaningful versus meaningless,
and so on down life’s multitudinous values.
Without conflicting values, a story’s social setting amounts to little more
than a board game; without an author’s moral imagination to align trait
against trait, a role adds less than a Monopoly token. So, whether a writer
starts with a setting and draws characters out of it or starts with characters
and wraps a setting around them, she must ultimately charge both with her
perception of life’s values.4
2. Logical Implication
A storyteller must be blessed with the kind of mind that given a fingertip
takes an arm, given an arm takes an army. In the same way that a composer
hears a chord and creates a melody, a painter sees a swath and fills a canvas
with wonder, a writer takes a hint and imagines a human.
You will never meet everyone you would need to know to fill multiple
casts over a lifetime of storytelling. So instead, develop your power of
deductive and inductive implication: Learn to work forward from piece into
whole—see a child and imagine her tribe; work back from a whole to a
piece—dream of a teeming city and find a lost soul.
3. Self-Knowledge
All writing is autobiographical. Every nugget of improvisation from within
yourself and every trigger of inspiration from outside yourself finds its way
to the page through you, filtered through your mind, your imagination, your
feelings. This does not mean your characters are alter egos, but rather that
self-knowledge is the taproot of character creation.
You are the only human being you will ever know in depth and breadth.
Yours is the only subjectivity you will ever view objectively. Yours is the
only inner voice you will ever converse with self to self. You live in the
prison cell of your own mind, and so no matter how long your intimate,
personal relationship with another person may last, you will never really
know what goes on in her inner world. You can guess at it but never know
it.
The only self you ever know is yours, and even then there are limits.
Because self-deception distorts self-awareness, you never know who you
are as well as you think you do. Self-knowledge is imperfect and in many
ways fallacious. Nonetheless, it’s all you have.
So, if you know yourself only in part and other people even less, how
can you create original, complex characters? By asking this question, “If I
were this character in these circumstances, what would I think, feel, do?”
Then listen for the honest answer because it’s always correct. You would do
the human thing. The more you penetrate the mysteries of your own
humanity, the more you’re able to understand the humanity of others.
Despite clear differences between people—differences of age, gender,
race, language, culture—we are all far more alike than we are different. We
are human beings having the same fundamental human experiences.
Therefore, if you are thinking and feeling it inside yourself, you can be
certain that every person coming down the street toward you, each in her
own way, is thinking and feeling it, too.
When we realize that the key to character creation is self-knowledge,
and then watch the parades of characters, numbering into the hundreds, who
have marched out of the minds of the world’s greatest writers—William
Shakespeare, Leo Tolstoy, Tennessee Williams, Toni Morrison, William
Wyler, Vince Gilligan, Ingmar Bergman, and many, many others—
characters that are so individual, so fascinating, so memorable, and all the
product of one imagination, it dazzles.

PART 2

BUILDING A CHARACTER
My characters are conglomerations of past and present stages of
civilization, bits from books and newspapers, scraps of humanity,
rags and tatters of fine clothing, patched together as is the human
soul.
—August Strindberg1
What’s the best angle on character creation? Outside in or inside out?
Should a writer first create a setting and then populate it with a cast? Or
begin by imagining a cast and then building a world around them?
In either case, once a particular character comes into focus, the same
questions apply: Should the writer invent surface traits and backtrack to the
character’s inner core? Or start at the core and work out to his traits? The
next two chapters examine these contrasting techniques.
4

CHARACTER INSPIRATION:

OUTSIDE IN
Inspiration rarely blazes into a finished, fully cast story. An artist’s instincts
usually spark just a sliver of intuition or a hint of mystery. These intriguing
fragments send chain reactions of free association spiraling through the
imagination. At first, what seems like a breakthrough usually dead-ends in a
cul-de-sac of clichés, but in time precious insights trace a winding trail to
success.
Inspiration can erupt from any of the many realms that surround an
author, so picture the storyteller’s universe as five concentric spheres nested
one inside the other:
1. The outermost shell comprises actuality—time and place, people
and things, past and present.
2. Inside the actual world rotates the fictional media of page, stage, and
screen.
3. Within that sphere orbit the storytelling genres with their various
conventions.
4. Each story houses a backstory reaching back to the characters’
births, turning points that happen during the telling, and themes that
unite all these events.
5. At the epicenter stands the author’s creative self, looking out, in
search of inspiration.
Let’s begin on the outside and work our way in to the writer.

REALITY AS INSPIRATION
An impulse for character creation often sparks when the density of reality
(objects, images, words, sounds, odors, flavors, textures) collides with a
boundless imagination. Any random sensation or experience could trigger a
cascade of freewheeling impressions that ultimately matures into a complex
character. For the storyteller, however, the most frequent inspiration comes
from other people.
People are to writers what sounds are to musicians. When an author
improvises a character, human nature supplies the notes that the writer
composes into a symphony of behaviors. As a result, fictional characters
and real people divide into two very different genera of humanity.
A real person is enigmatic and incomplete—a life yet to be lived; a
character is an artwork—a complete and expressive version of its original
inspiration. People exist, yet characters often seem more intensely real.
When people sail directly at us, we alter course to avoid collisions.
Characters just glide on by, busily unaware that we watch their every turn.
People confront us; we affect them. Characters intrigue us; we absorb them.
Early-twentieth-century authors such as Henry James and Luigi
Pirandello felt that although characters could be known in godlike ways (as
their novels and plays demonstrated), they had little confidence in objective
observations of real people. Since they could witness only gestures and
traits, they doubted they could ever know people in depth. They felt that the
diagnosis of hidden motives is, at best, a guess—an educated guess,
perhaps, but subject to error and prejudice.
And they were right. If you’re writing a memoir, for example, your cast
will naturally include people you know, but an acquaintance turned into a
character can be as superficial as a snapshot. When you draw directly from
life, look beneath the surface, uncover silent truths, surprise us with your
insights. Do not copy. Rather, reimagine real people into intriguing
characters we can believe in.
In other words, finding inspiration in a real person does not guarantee
credibility. If a writer doesn’t trust or believe in someone, he doesn’t feel
compelled to write him. But if, trait after trait, credibility grows in his mind,
deepening his belief, then the work begins. Often, one unique facet
suddenly implies an entire humanity, and this “telling detail” lifts an
interesting inspiration out of the what is and into the what could be.
Writers with limited knowledge of their character’s setting, society, and
traits generalize and thus shrivel their belief and with that, their power to
invent. Writers with a global purchase on reality generate unique characters
in one-of-a-kind settings that instantly involve readers and audiences.

MEDIUM AS INSPIRATION
Choice of medium, the second source of inspiration, not only influences the
shape of an author’s stories but the traits and behaviors of the characters
who live in them. To please the camera, for example, screen characters tend
to act more visually than verbally. Screenwriters, therefore, tend to create
characters who can express themselves with looks and gestures. To please
theatre audiences, stage characters act more verbally than visually.
Playwrights, therefore, tend to endow their characters with expressive
dialogue.
Stage and screen characters perform in the present tense, aiming verbal
and visual actions at their future desires. Prose voices usually narrate in the
past tense, recalling events, retrospectively interpreting what happened in
detail. Prose writers, therefore, often give their first-person narrators keen

memories, discerning eyes, and sensitivity to subtext.
Beyond characterizing roles, choice of medium also impacts a writer’s
personal sense of identity. Who am I? A playwright? Showrunner?
Screenwriter? Novelist? Each of these titles has a noble tradition, but I urge
writers to move freely back and forth from page to stage to screen.
Shrinking your writerly identity to a single medium limits your creative
range.
If, for example, no one offers to produce your screenplay, why not
rework it in another medium? Stage it as a play or publish it as a novel. Put
your characters in public and watch how readers and audiences react. The
insights you gain can never be glimpsed alone at your desk. Air your
stories, field responses, and watch your skills grow. Flex your talents and
give yourself an all-media title: writer.
To take your identity a level deeper, ask: “Am I in love with the art in
myself or myself in the art?”1 Do you write because the life inside you
demands expression? Or because you dream of living an artist’s life? Many
novices nurture crushes on Hollywood or Broadway or the writer-infested
countryside of Connecticut. After a few rejections, their dream implodes
and they quit. So make certain that whichever medium inspires you
harmonizes with more than a lifestyle.

GENRE AS INSPIRATION
Most writers, I suspect, find inspiration in reality far less than they think
and in fiction far more than they know. A true first spark rarely flashes from
something seen on a street corner or glimpsed online. More often than not,
it’s a phrase of dialogue or beautifully turned image found in a novel, play,
film, or series written in the genre they love.
The major media contain numerous genres (see Chapter 14), each with
various subgenres, all of which can be combined or merged into an endless
variety of story designs. So when in search of a new, original subject, pay
attention to your own story-going habits. What screen series do you binge
on? What films and plays do you run to see? Which novels do you read?
What genre do you love? Let your passions inspire your early inspirations
for character.

EVENTS AS INSPIRATION
Konstantin Stanislavsky, the Russian stage director, taught his actors a
technique to unlock their talents that he called the “Magic If”—the shift to a
hypothetical way of thinking that opens the imagination. To create a true-to-
character moment, the actor asks the open-ended question “If XXX
happened, what would I do?” then imagines his reaction.
So, for example, if the cast were rehearsing a family argument scene, an
actor might silently ask himself, “What would happen if at this moment I
were to punch my brother? How might he react? How might I react to his
reaction?” With these hypothetical questions, these ifs, his imagination
leaps to an unexpected yet truthful behavior.
Character creators do the same. As the Magic If floats through a writer’s
imagination, he improvises an inciting incident that in turn triggers the
events that follow: If a shark ate a vacationer, what kinds of characters
would go after the shark?2 If a woman discovered that throughout nearly
five decades of marriage her husband was secretly in love with his first
love, his long-deceased fiancée, what kind of wife would let that revelation
destroy her happiness?3
The question “What would happen if…?” often inspires a story’s
inciting incident; that in turn inspires the characters who react to it; that
then determines whether the telling is plot-driven or character-driven.
Stephen King says his novels always begin plot-driven. To launch a telling,
he magic-ifs an inciting incident beyond his protagonist’s control. From that
point on, however, he hopes his characters will take over and make
decisions he didn’t see coming, so that by the last page, his tales feel
character-driven.4

THEME AS INSPIRATION
Writing is an exploration of life. Like a seafarer, an author sails into his
story, never quite sure where he’s headed or what he will find when he gets
there. In fact, if nothing on the horizon surprises him, he’s steering a

timeworn passage and needs a new compass point.
Eventually, as characters and events merge in climactic turning points,
the writer discovers his story’s meaning. In other words, the story surprises
the writer with this insight; the writer does not dictate meaning to the story.
And what is that meaning?
All well-told stories, from ancient myths to modern satires, express one
essential idea: How and why life changes. This meaning arises out of deep
causes that arc a story’s core value from negative to positive or positive to
negative—for example, from hate to love or the reverse, or from freedom to
slavery or the reverse, or from a meaningless life to a meaningful life or the
reverse, and so on through the myriad values at stake in humanity’s
countless tales. As a writer works in search of story, hidden causes from
beneath the surface of society or within a character’s subconscious mind
suddenly reveal themselves, delivering insights into character an author can
discover only through improvisation.
However, when writers move in the opposite direction, when they start
with a belief and then concoct a plot and cast to demonstrate it, spontaneity
hardens and the unforeseen is never discovered. Belief-fixated writers, in
their burning zeal to prove their point, reduce stories to illustrated lectures
and characters to mouthpieces. This practice is as old as medieval morality
plays that cast a universal human being or Everyman as protagonist and
then surrounded him with players who acted out his encounters with ideas
such as Virtue and Vice, Mercy and Mischief, Beauty and Knowledge, Birth
and Death—all in an effort to educate the morally illiterate.
Today, the practice of working backward from idea to story is the
unfortunate tendency of Social Drama. This genre takes its themes from the
many maladies that infect society: poverty, sexism, racism, political
corruption—injustices and sufferings in all their guises.
A writer, for example, may come to believe that although drug
dependency is a terrible social ill, it can be cured by love. So starting with
the theme “Love cures addiction,” he first creates a last-act climax in which
an act of love turns an addict from decades of enslavement to a lifetime of
sobriety. Knowing his ending, he then strings turning points back to a pill-
popping inciting incident, filling events in between with characters who
enact his theory. The good people become very very good people; the bad
people very very bad people; and all the dialogue argues on-the-nose
explanations of the power of love to cure addiction. The plastic results
change no one’s mind about love or addiction.
Meaning discovered while exploring character creation is always more
insightful than belief used to mechanize a plot.
CHARACTER BIOGRAPHY AS INSPIRATION
Every character has a life history trailing back to the family that gave him
birth. Does this past matter to the writer? Novelist Philip Roth thought yes.
For him, the past was a cache of motivational catalysts and jeweled
dimensions. That was why he devised five thousand or more biographical
bits and pieces per protagonist.
Playwright David Mamet thought not. For him, inventing childhoods,
with or without the usual traumas, seemed a waste of time.
These conflicting views have as much to do with the author’s media
choices as his work habits. Novels (with exceptions) speak in the past tense
and project their characters’ lives over spans of time; the theatre (with
exceptions) runs its scenes along the cutting edge of the now. In fact, to get
biographical exposition onstage playwrights call on novelistic devices such
as reminiscing monologues and flashbacks, as did Edward Albee in Who’s
Afraid of Virginia Woolf? and Three Tall Women.
I side with Roth. Although few of his five thousand pieces of character
biography found their way to the page, they gave him the foundational
knowledge that set off fireworks of creative choices.
As you compile a character’s past, look for patterns rather than
singularities. Redundant emotional experiences deposit residues. Repeated
traumas cause PTSD; daily coddling produces egoists. Imprints left by
recurring emotions affect motivations (what to seek/what to avoid),
temperaments (calm/nervous), dispositions (optimistic/pessimistic),
personalities (charming/irritating), and other such traits.
Movements in the subconscious inspire qualities of behavior, and
qualities of behavior mirror subconscious movements. Once these patterns
take root, they drive lifelong strivings. A character rarely abandons his
childhood traits in the face of adult conflicts. Instead, he will often react to
a person in the present as if he were someone from his past. Groundwork
laid in biography, therefore, will determine the tactics a character uses in
later life.
As you build out a character’s years prior to the story’s inciting incident,
focus on early adolescence. It’s in these preteen days that he first dreams
about the future, testing and formulating possible meanings and purposes. If
he’s lucky, he’ll have a positive experience—an inspirational teacher, a
personal epiphany—that commits him to the goal he pursues for a lifetime.
Or his first glimpse of a life purpose may turn sharply negative. He suffers
confusion, doubt, fear, shame, sadness, anger, depression—any combination
or all of these at once. In other words, he becomes a teenager.
He then spends who knows how many years in an identity crisis of
minor or major magnitude, trying to figure out who he is, where he came
from, where he’s going, and how he will fit in when he gets there. At some
future point, for better or worse, a workable identity solidifies. He matures
into a historian of his personal past and a prophet of his personal future,
poised to enter your story.
While doing this research, the writer often comes to value the richness
of the past over the void of the future. The remembered comes with textures
and tensions, scents and shapes; the imagined offers possibilities without
subtleties, blanks to be filled. From a character’s point of view, he can only
hope that the future will repeat a pattern he’s coped with in the past.
THE SELF-STORY AS INSPIRATION
As a final tack from the outside in, do this: Sit your character down in a
chair across from you, introduce yourself, and ask him to tell you his self-
story. Your character is, of course, nonexistent, so when he speaks, it will be
in a voice only your imagination can hear. In effect, you and your creative
self have a conversation.
Self-stories express how people think about their life and see the reality
around them. Elicit your character’s self-story by asking questions about
high points, low points, turning points, successes, failures, and other
moments of stress. The story a character tells about himself, although rarely
factual, expresses who he thinks he is. You have to decide if his version is
true or false or some of both.
As he tells his tale, bear in mind that all statements of self are self-
serving. It’s impossible for human beings to do otherwise. All lines of
dialogue, for example, that start with the pronoun I are followed, to some
degree, by a deceit or exaggeration, no matter how profound or petty. Even
when a character confesses to terrible deeds, a whisper from his subtext
implies a bit of self-congratulation to the effect, “Aren’t I sensitive, honest,
and clear thinking to see these faults in myself and courageous to admit
them in public?” When Hamlet curses himself with “Oh what a rogue and
peasant slave am I,” a certain pride in self-awareness rolls through his

subtext.
In any case, self-descriptions do not mean what they seem to mean; they
always have a purpose beyond the literal. So it’s up to you to sense the
difference between truth and BS, between self-awareness and self-
deception. Always compare what a character says with what you feel when
he says it.
No one is who he seems to be. Everyone wears a persona of
characterization, the masks they’ve evolved to get through their day with as
little friction as possible. To see behind his mask, question your character
about his greatest dilemmas, the crisis choices he’s made, and the actions
he’s taken in the face of high risk.
A self-story, for example, that matches cause with effect and organizes
consistent values around persistent goals suggests a character with a well-
organized psychology. Whereas an incoherent, inconsistent self-story that
disconnects cause and effect and aims at multiple, contradictory goals
suggests the opposite.5
Contradictions within a character form his dimensions. (See Chapter 9.)
So, as you listen to your character’s self-story, be alert to his inner
oppositions. People often seek two things that cannot coexist. While he
claws his way up the corporate ladder, for example, he expects pats on the
back from coworkers. Doubtful. When he tells you about the various things
he wants out of life, do they seem consistent or incongruous?
Find his whys. Your character’s true motivations will be subconscious to
him, but nonetheless, he will offer steadfast rationalizations for wanting
what he wants. You, like an annoying five-year-old, must repeatedly ask
why. Why does he do what he does? How does he explain his actions? His
desires? And what’s his plan to reach these desires? Has he mapped out a
life strategy, or does he improvise day by day?
Finally, ask about his beliefs. Beliefs create the context for every action
a human being takes. Does he believe God exists or not? That romantic love
exists or not? In his mind, what’s good? Evil? What institutions does he
trust? Private? Public? None? What would he risk his life for? His soul for?
What deep beliefs hold his world together?
Although beliefs mold behavior, they can change… sometimes on a
dime. Fanatics, for example, often reverse ideologies and join the
opposition side—communists become fascists, fascists communists. For the
true believer, the passion of believing is more important than the meaning
of belief.6
Let the insights you gain from all these levels inspire your development
of character dimensionality and inner complexity.
5

CHARACTER INSPIRATION: INSIDE

OUT
To project yourself into the consciousness of a person essentially
your opposite requires the audacity of great genius.
—Henry James1
The second grand source of inspiration places the writer not at the center of
her universe but at the heart of her character’s universe. An adventurous
writer brings her creation to life by imagining her way into the character’s
inner self, seeing through his eyes, hearing with his ears, sensing everything
he senses. She envisions the character’s conflicts, improvises choices and
takes moment by moment actions as if the character’s fictional life were
happening to her. This leap from one consciousness into another requires, as
Henry James noted, a certain genius. I call this technique writing in-
character.
As the in-character writer inhabits a role’s inner self, his emotions
become hers, her pulse pounds with him, his anger flares inside her; she
celebrates his triumphs, she loves his loves. The most powerful inspirations
of all strike when the writer experiences what the character experiences. In
other words, the character’s first actor is the writer.
An author is an improvisationist. She first imagines herself at the
pinpoint center of her character’s consciousness. Once in-character, her
mind, emotions, and energies drive character creation. She paces the floor,
arms waving, words flying, acting out her creations—man, woman, child,
monster. The writer, like the actor, lives inside her character’s senses, seeing
and hearing the story’s events as if she were the living character herself so
that what happens in the character happens in her.
How does a writer get in-character? How does she improvise the
character she’s creating? How does she use her own emotions to give life to
a fictional being? Once again, she calls on Stanislavsky’s Magic If.
In an effort to give her character life, the writer could ask, “If I were in
this situation, what would I do?” That thought could certainly get juices
flowing, but the writer is not the character. So what the writer might say and
do in that moment may be nothing like the actions the character would take.
Or the writer could ask, “If my character were in this situation, what
would my character do?” But that thought sits the writer in an audience, as
it were, picturing the character onstage. Rather than feeling what the
character feels, the writer must now guess at his emotions, and guesses are
almost always clichés.
To get in-character, therefore, the writer puts the Magic If to work with
this thought: “If I were this character in this situation, what would I do?” In
other words, the writer acts the scene—not as herself, but as the character.
Now the character’s emotions flow, not the writer’s.
Writing in-character means more than thinking about what goes on
inside a character’s head. It means living within him, so that your mind
occupies his mind, his self-awareness becomes yours, and you two act as
one. Mastery of the inside-out technique brings characters to life on page,
stage, and screen with a truthfulness and subtlety that cannot be achieved
any other way.
Discovering the inspirations that can be found only inside a fictional
being calls for sustained, willful and often courageous imaginings. The
prerequisite for this feat is insight into your own inner life. The more you
understand your true nature, the better you perceive your character’s
complexities. To know yourself, you must recognize your rock-bottom
inner self, compare your dreams to reality and your desires to morality, and
from that base explore the social, personal, private, and hidden selves that
complete your multifaceted humanity. Your truth will become the truth of
every character you create.
So, before you attempt the in-character technique, let’s look inside the
multilayered complexity of a human being.
THE OBSERVER AND THE OBSERVED
The brain consists of roughly 100 billion neurons laced into 100 trillion
interconnections. This immense-beyond-imagining complexity constantly
adapts and changes as it interacts with its body, and then through its body
with the surrounding physical and social worlds. With every passing day,
the brain evolves new thoughts and new feelings, and then stores them in
memory as preparation for the future.
Somehow (and science is yet to discover how) consciousness ascends
out of this vast conformance, a mind that is not just aware of the things
around it but is self-aware—a mind that can step back from itself and see
itself as an object.2
The nature of the inner self has been debated for centuries. Is it a reality
or a fantasy? Does a mind staring at itself see itself or mirror images
reflecting into infinity?
Buddha, as we noted, believed that the self is illusionary because what’s
inside our minds began as sensory impressions of sights and sounds from
outside our minds. What we call the self is actually a bundle of external
imprints that appear one after the other like an actor coming and going on-
and offstage. Therefore, a true self does not exist—it’s an anatta (nonself), a
sort of mental special effect.
Socrates reversed this. He believed that not only do human beings have
a solid inner realm but two selves living within it: the observer and the
observed. The core self (the observer) is the epicenter of consciousness that
watches life go by and tries to understand it. The core self sends the agent
self (the observed) into the world to take action. The core self then
perceives its agent self in action and becomes an audience to its own daily
life. This is self-awareness—the performance in your inner theatre that no
one attends but you.3
Consider this: After doing something foolish, don’t you often think the
thought, “You idiot!”? When you do, who, exactly, is shaming who? When
you manage a success, you often think, “I got that right.” Who is patting
whose back? How do self-criticism and self-congratulation work? Who
talks to whom?
As you read this page, an observing awareness within you follows your
every move. You perceive (watch yourself read), and then act (take notes on
paper or store them in memory). This pivot from awareness-to-action-to-
awareness within the mind separates the core self from the agent self.4
Some neuroscientists, however, to this day, still side with Buddhism.
They argue that because each region of the brain has a separate function and
because no single region, in and of itself, causes self-awareness, a core self
does not exist.5
Others agree with Socrates: Human beings have motor neurons for
movement, sensory neurons for the senses, and interneurons—by far the
most numerous—for the heavy lifting of thought. The brain, with its residue
of past experiences and imaginings of future happenings, coupled with the
body’s nervous system and the totality of its moment-by-moment sensory
encounters, focuses billions of impulses toward the center of awareness, the
core self. Self-awareness, therefore, is the side effect of all the neurons in
all these regions working in concert. And that’s why damage to any one
region of the brain diminishes or extinguishes the sense of self. Peak self-
awareness, watching and doing, radiates through the well-nourished brain
of a healthy body.6
This is nothing new. The Egyptians saw the observing self as a
protective spirit and named it the Ba Soul; the Greeks called it the
Daemon;7 the Romans dubbed it the Genius.8 But if, at the end of the day,
science decides that the self is a fiction, as Buddha claimed, fine with me.
Then it’s our fiction, our nature, what makes us human.9
(Try this: Go to a mirror and glance into your eyes. For an instant you’ll
sense someone else, deep within, looking back. With the next blink,
however, you’ll realize that what you glimpsed was a split-second image of
your core self observing you just before your agent self reacted. These
moments happen best when unplanned, but it’s worth a test.)
To deepen our understanding of human nature, we must not only accept
the idea of the self, but of a cast of selves: the core self (observer); the agent
self (observed) plus all the personal and social personae an agent self
assumes; all the past selves the core self remembers; and finally, at the
deepest level, the hidden self.10
FOUR SELVES IN SEARCH OF A

CHARACTER
To imagine how each layer of self creates a fully human character, start at
the conscious center, the private realm in which the core self copes with
inner dilemmas, makes decisions, then directs the agent self to take action.
Next, surround that center with two outer strata: the personal realm in
which the agent self assumes various personae as it deals with intimate
relationships, and the social realm in which the agent self takes on its public
personae as it copes with institutions and individuals.
Finally, underpin these three levels with a substrata: the subconscious
realm in which the hidden self struggles with contradictory desires.
From story to story, how many of these levels are at play in your
characters is up to you, but let’s work through them one at a time:
The Private Selves: Variations of Identity
William James gave the core self names such as the “self of selves,” the
“owner-self,” the “proprietor-self.” In his analogy, the core self is a
sanctuary within a citadel, the epicenter inside our personal and public
personae.11 James’s concept of “the stream of thought” inspired fiction
writers like Virginia Woolf to create the literary style of “stream of
consciousness.”
In the William James view of the private realm, the core self maintains a
single identity over a lifetime while observing and absorbing its many past
selves. We know we are not the same person we used to be, and yet we feel
that we are and always have been our core self. Our mind has a permanent,
unchanging, stable sense of identity, and yet, simultaneously, its
continuously evolving consciousness acts and reacts, learns and forgets,
evolves and devolves, keeps some attitudes about values and desires but
changes to others about what’s worth doing, what’s a waste of time, and the
like. Day in, day out, we live in a natural state of paradox: We change while
we stay the same.12
An aside: William James’s younger brother was the author Henry James.
The two delved into the nature of thought in both science and fiction. Their
work inspired Henry to explore the point-of-view techniques that
revolutionized the modern psychological novel. The nineteenth century
gave America two sets of James brothers: Henry and William (writers and
psychologists) and Jesse and Frank (bank robbers and committers of
atrocities).
Imprisoned inside our skull, the core self lives essentially alone. Our
inner voice is the only inner voice we will ever hear. Because our core self
cannot contact another person’s private realm telepathically, consciousness
becomes a kind of cinema of the mind. Somewhere inside of our head, we
sit in a permanent state of isolation—an audience of one in a
multisensational, 360-degree movie that crosscuts images from our eyes
and our imagination, accompanied by sounds, smells, touches, tastes,
feelings, and emotions.13
Someone in a deep meditative state may try to face herself within
herself. She may turn away from the focal point of her meditation and look
back toward her awareness, hoping that her watching self and her acting
self will meet. But try as she might, the two never do, never can. For the
moment consciousness focuses on the next thing, the core self steps back to
observe. This is the Hamlet dilemma.
Hamlet’s mind, like two mirrors facing each other, stares at itself
throughout the play. As he strives to understand himself, he becomes
obsessed with his consciousness of his own consciousness. He tries to step
inside self-awareness and study himself from within but cannot. Finally,
after the graveyard scene in Act V, “Hamlet discovers that his life has been
a quest with no object except his endlessly burgeoning subjectivity.”14
When at last he purges himself of his obsession with himself, he finds peace
of mind.
As Hamlet discovers, you cannot face yourself within yourself. You
know you’re there, but you cannot separate your core self from the rest of
your mind and hold it out to look at it. When you turn toward it, it just shifts
behind you once again, blocking the gateway to the subconscious. If you
could actually squeeze behind your core self, you would fall into a swirling
subliminal abyss.
When a character talks about herself in a first-person novel or in
soliloquy onstage or in voice-over narration on-screen, the self receiving
criticism is usually referred to as “you” as in “You fool,” while the self
hearing praise is addressed as “I” as in “I got that right.” Shakespeare uses
“I” in soliloquies because his characters talk to the audience, not
themselves. Nonetheless, some actors play soliloquies as if they were
duelogues of core self versus agent self, an argument within a split
personality.15
When the mind decides to take action, the core self sends its agent self
into the world and watches what happens. The public performances of the
agent self are called by various names: personalities, personae, masks,
fronts, poses, and the like. All apt synonyms, but I prefer the term selves.
When writing in-character, the writer needs to see her character’s
behaviors for what they are: impersonations of the core self. So, while
staying constantly observing, the writer, as first actor, also becomes an
agent self to improvise these performances.
The core self may undergo major variations:
The Extended Self
Henry and William James stretched the core self into the extended self. In
their view, a person’s identity includes all things “mine”—her computer
extends her mind, her iPhone extends her reach, her car her legs, her clothes
her skin, as do, each in their own way, her friends and ancestors, education
and profession, taste in vacations, music, movies, and how she looks in the
gym mirror. The sum total of all things she calls her own creates her total
sense of self.
As a result, she feels about her things very much the way as she feels
about herself. To lose a job, a loved one, or her good looks is to lose a piece
of herself. If a friend, lover, or family member does something wrong, she
feels ashamed; if they are insulted, she flashes with anger. If they prosper,
so does she; if they dwindle, so does she. Although many people feel that
coupling one’s identity to things, even other people, hints of moral
weakness, it is what human beings do.16
The Protected Self
The core self, for sanity’s sake, must keep its secrets. As Michel de
Montaigne put it, “We must reserve a little back-shop all our own, entirely
free, wherein we maintain our retreat, liberty and precious solitude.”17 All
authors, especially prose writers, look in this “little back-shop” for a voice
that’s strong enough to narrate a first-person novel or short story. This
protected, sane self contains a set of enduring facilities: willpower, rational
thought, and moral sensibility.
The Vanished Self
However, when a character comes under extreme stress due to disasters
such as physical injury, sudden poverty, drug dependency, insanity, senility,
terminal illness, and the like, these derangements attack the core self,
causing overpowering emotions, paralyzed thought, seizures,
hallucinations, amnesia, lapses of consciousness, or splits or reversals of
personality. In a word, a character de-dimensionalizes. Her identity weakens
and she becomes unmoored, alone, until her essential self eventually
vanishes.
Examples: In Ken Kesey’s novel One Flew over the Cuckoo’s Nest,
Chief Bromden, a patient in an insane asylum, tells his tale while plagued
with schizophrenic hallucinations; in Forbidden Planet, a scientist’s
research releases a monster from his id; in Memento, the protagonist battles
anterograde amnesia and short-term memory loss; in Will Self’s novel
Phone, psychiatrist Zachary Busner copes with the onset of Alzheimer’s; in
Gabriel García Márquez’s One Hundred Years of Solitude, José Buendia
loses his memory, so he marks everything around him with its name: chair,
clock, door, and so on; in Eugene Ionesco’s play Exit the King, the King’s
mind, horrified by his pending death, splinters like a windshield in a head-
on collision.
When a loss of self causes radical change in a character’s perception of
reality, the writer’s talent must rise to the occasion. Now the Magic If
becomes, “If I were this character under these extreme circumstances, what
would I do?” To take the point of view of a distorted core self, you must
imagine its altered reality and invent its coping strategies, as disturbing as
they may be.
Because a character’s sense of “I” depends on memory and memory is
notoriously selective, protective, self-deceptive, and prone to self-
justifications, the core self and agent self often have a fallible, illusionary
kinship. The core self of certain characters wavers, constantly reinventing
itself as it pushes through life. To express that splintering, Joyce Carol
Oates, in her novel Blonde, fragmented Marilyn Monroe into numerous
selves.
Personal Selves: Variations of Intimacy
When we encounter other people, we attune our behavior to the quality of
the relationship. We do not treat our mother, for example, the way we treat
our sister; we do not treat our current lover the way we treat an ex; we do
not treat our best friend the way we treat a coworker. Our agent self adopts
timbres of voice, gestures, facial expressions, and emotional energies
geared to the relationship’s length of acquaintance, balance of power,
current history, and many other variables. The changes may be subtle, but
they are always in play.
Personal relationships are defined by degrees of intimacy and come in
three textures: family, friends, lovers. In the first two, feelings of closeness,
belonging, loyalty, and bonding develop through shared experiences, some
painful, some pleasureful, that stay secret inside the relationship. Lovers
add romantic rituals and sexuality.
We adapt our behaviors, but that doesn’t falsify us. Common sense tells
us that diverse interactions call for diverse selves. Indeed, the more
relationships a character has, the more versions of her the in-character
writer must invent and perform. Compared to the core self, personal selves
are temporary behaviors, easily dropped as an agent self moves from scene
to scene. A character’s most important, and hopefully consistent, personal
self is the one loved by her loved ones.
Social Selves: Variations of Power
Power is the primary shaper of social interactions, whether it’s projected
financially, physically, or from inside an institution’s hierarchy: boss versus
employee, cop versus criminal, server versus served.
From her earliest childhood, your protagonist—while squeezing her
mother’s hand as she was dragged through shopping malls or coping with
other kids on her first day of school—learned the need for social masks, for
tactics to avoid friction, and yet get what she wants. All social selves are
insincere to a degree, and yet necessary to protect the core self.
So no matter what your character actually thinks or feels about the
people around her, her agent self has developed the social persona that she
shows her boss, others for her coworkers, yet more masks to wear for duets
such as clerk/customer, doctor/patient, lawyer/client, as well as multiple
happenstances in classrooms, at political protests, during sporting events,
and a very special variation for schmoozing from clique to clique at a party.
So depending on factors such as familiarity and status, her social selves
operate with the variety of voices, gestures, attitudes, and aspects of
personality that she has invented so she can shift gears from encounter to
encounter. She may, for example, play the dominant self with one person,
the submissive with another. Lina Wertmüller’s film Swept Away gave us
the wealthy matron Raffaella (Mariangela Melato) as a delightful example
of this flip.
A character’s selves, both personal and social, are best thought of as sets
of performances. Each role has a particular tone of voice, eye expression,
body language, and nervosity, depending on the identity of the other person
and the quality of power or intimacy between them.
How a writer develops her characters’ personal and social selves
depends on her theory of psychological cause and effect. Do the social and
personal roles her character learns between childhood and adulthood
combine to build her core self? Or does her core self design the roles she
plays from encounter to encounter? Does a child’s role-playing solidify into
an adult’s core self that then redirects her future role-playing toward more
mature performances? Or does she stay forever a child, always at the mercy
of her impulsive, reckless self?
The identity a character inherits from her parents—race, religion, culture
—gives her common ground with her society. Over time, however, it’s what
makes her different that evolves and reshapes her identity. Difference is the
centrifugal force that throws people into the world, searching for a
subculture that fits them and fellow travelers that befriend them. How, for
example, does a transgender child, trapped in a zealously orthodox religion,
successfully navigate her public life? How can she evolve her social and
personal selves so she finally fits in?
The Hidden Self: Variations of Desire
There’s someone in my head but it’s not me.
—Pink Floyd, paraphrasing Carl Jung
The subconscious self sits in the silent space behind the conscious mind.
This realm is complex and structurally sophisticated. Although it stays
hidden from the core self, perceptions and feelings flow back and forth
between them, each influencing the other. The subconscious is neither a
refuge nor a medic for a wounded identity. Anchored in the truth, it never
lies, never pretends. Instead, it obeys one imperative: survive.18
Although mute, the subconscious “thinks” far faster than the core self
realizes. It absorbs millions of sensory stimuli per minute as it sizes up an
environment, and then enhances mental efficiency by making immediate
decisions and performing countless rote tasks, leaving the core self free to
react to the unfamiliar.
The subconscious contains moods and feelings, automatic skills,
automatic reactions, unperceived perceptions, habits, phobias, dreams,
memories, implicit knowledge, and sudden creative insights. Innate desires
arise out of this hidden self—cravings for food, sex, and survival at all cost,
as well as for knowledge, love, and peace. Because these drives disrupt the
conscious mind, they stay out of view; nonetheless, they sway judgments,
feelings, and behavior.19
The question, therefore, becomes: Can an author, working in-character,
improvise from within the role’s subconscious mind? We inherited our
subconscious from our tree-dwelling ancestors; like the mind of an animal,
it has neither language nor self-awareness, thus making thought, in the
usual sense, seemingly impossible. On the other hand, I’ve often imagined
desires and curiosities raging inside my pets. So I don’t see why not. If it
helps bring your character to life, try it.
MAD MEN: THE FOUR SELVES IN ACTION
To script the longform series Mad Men, showrunner Matthew Weiner and
his cowriters developed each character at three levels of conflict: their Work
Life, Intimate Life, and Secret Life. These levels correspond to the Social
Self, Personal Self, and Core Self. I’ve added a fourth level, the
Subconscious Life, so that the interpretations that follow include each
character’s Hidden Self. Human nature is an unsolved mystery of elegant,
glorious confusion. The four-self structure frames character creation, but
it’s not a set of instructions. The creation of major characters, whether
inside out or outside in, should ultimately give you insight into their natures
at all four levels of self. Study the following cast members and compare
their four-level designs to the roles in your current writings.
Don Draper (Jon Hamm)
Social Self: smooth-talking ad agency creative director with a genius for
seducing clients.
Personal Self: His wife and two children seem like a picture-perfect
family in a breakfast cereal commercial, but Don’s extramarital affairs
corrupt and destroy that illusion.
Core Self: Don’s real name is Dick Whitman. He stole his Draper
identity from a dead officer during the Korean War. As a result, his guilt-
ridden conscience renders him incapable of love… and he knows it.
Hidden Self: He’s haunted by a sense of dread. Despite his great
success, he fears his life is meaningless and will come to nothing.
Betty Draper (January Jones)
Social Self: Betty, a college-educated former model, spends her time
squabbling with her children, horseback riding, and chain-smoking.
Personal Self: Pregnant with a third child she doesn’t want, Betty feels
trapped in an empty marriage.
Core Self: She takes revenge on her unfaithful husband by using her
sexual charms to torment a neighbor’s young son and indulge in one-night
stands with anonymous men.
Hidden Self: Gnawing self-doubt tells her she’s lucky she was born
beautiful because otherwise she’d be ordinary.
Roger Sterling (John Slattery)
Social Self: Roger, partner and rainmaker for the firm, suffers two heart
attacks.
Personal Self: He wants to divorce his wife but can’t decide which of his
mistresses, if any, he actually loves.
Core Self: Roger pines for the voluptuous Joan but can’t admit it.
Hidden Self: His greatest fear is being alone.
Peggy Olson (Elisabeth Moss)
Social Self: By dint of IQ and willpower, Peggy works her way up from
secretary to copywriter, landing her own office and secretary.
Personal Self: Peggy, a devout Catholic, pursues her career against
pressure from her marriage-minded family.
Core Self: Peggy hides her secret pregnancy by letting others think she’s
just gaining weight.
Hidden Self: She’s the smartest person in the room and tempted by
strange sexual impulses she can’t admit to herself.
Pete Campbell (Vincent Kartheiser)
Social Self: Pete, a young executive, engineers power games as he climbs
the corporate pyramid.
Personal Self: Because his wife desperately wants a child but cannot
conceive, Pete can never find balance in his marriage.
Core Self: On his wedding eve, Pete slept with Peggy Olson, and she
later gave birth to his son. He longs for the child he’ll never know.
Hidden Self: He’s talentless but never lets that truth get in his way.
Joan Holloway (Christina Hendricks)
Social Self: Joan’s stunning looks camouflage her brainy insights into
people.
Personal Self: Her loveless marriage to an incompetent doctor leads to
an illegitimate child and divorce.
Core Self: She deceives herself into thinking that marriage gives a
woman’s life meaning, thus denying her business prowess.
Hidden Self: She’s a loner who doesn’t want to work for anyone but
herself.
Sal Romano (Bryan Batt)
Social Self: Sal, the agency’s art director, illustrates Don’s snappy slogans.
Personal Self: He’s married but without children.
Core Self: Sal desperately hides his homosexuality from his homophobic
colleagues.
Hidden Self: He hates being gay.
OUTSIDE IN / INSIDE OUT
The technique of writing in-character links the artist’s creative self to the
character’s inner life, but few writers work exclusively from the inside out.
Rather, they take a double path, alternating between perspectives. First, they
gather clues to the character’s identity from the outer shells of her setting
and society, as well as from her age, IQ, and genetic givens. Then they peer
down through the various levels of behavior to her core, instinctive self.
The Magic If puts them in-character, and from there, they improvise. But
even while in-character, they often alternate points of view from character
to character.
For example: If a writer were sketching a scene between Characters A
and B, she would find a true-to-character choice and action by asking, “If I
were Character A in this moment, what would I do?” Then, in the next beat,
she would switch point of view and ask, “If I were Character B in this
situation, how would I react to what Character A just said and did?”
Each time the writer steps out of character, she reflects on the actions
and reactions just created and the effects they caused on both roles. Her
thoughts and feelings shift from inside to out, then outside to in, subjective
to objective, objective to subjective, repeating these cycles until the scene is
perfected.
E. L. Doctorow, a superb practitioner of this alternating technique,
worked both ends against the middle. In his historical fictions, such as
Ragtime and The Waterworks, he researched his subject until he was a
world-class authority on it, but then, as he acted out his characters, he gave
them guises. Doctorow’s fictional characters often seem as if they were
historical personages, while his historical figures seem as if they had been
improvised in his ingenious brain.20
6

ROLES VERSUS CHARACTERS
A role is not a character. A role simply assumes a generic position in a
story’s social order (Mother, Boss, Artist, Loner) and then carries out that
role’s tasks (feeding children, managing employees, painting canvases,
avoiding people). Like a picture frame around an empty canvas, a role
offers an artist a blank space that needs a character.
When a fully realized character enters a story, he first assumes a basic
role but then fills it with his singular personality and executes the role’s
tasks in a unique manner, striking a one-of-a-kind relationship with each
member of the cast. A cast’s design strategically arranges its roles and
relationships so that no two take the same position nor perform the same
tasks in the same way.

CAST FORMATION
Characters come in casts, complete with complex networks of relationships.
To sort these interconnections, picture a cast as a solar system of planets,
moons, comets, and asteroids surrounding the star blazing at the center.
Three concentric rings of supporting roles orbit the sun at various distances,
affecting him and each other to greater or lesser degrees. The most
influential characters cycle closest to the protagonist; less impactful minor
roles rotate further out; and at the farthest reaches, one-scene-only bit parts,
nonspeaking walk-ons and crowds-on-streets complete the social universe.
A third-person narrator, like an unseen god, views this cosmos from a
distance.
To design your cast, begin with the star role and expand to the outermost
reaches.
Protagonist
It takes guts to place a character front and center before readers and
audiences and imply that this guy is so interesting, so involving, he
deserves a major chunk of their precious time. So before you take that step,
let’s examine the essential qualities of a protagonist:
(1) Willpower
The mind, fearing extinction above all else, yearns for security, so when a
story’s inciting incident throws life out of kilter, the protagonist’s instincts
react as if his survival were at stake. He then conceives an object of desire
—a physical, personal, or social objective that he feels would restore life’s
equilibrium. As he pursues this goal, antagonistic forces block his efforts.
At the final crisis, he faces the story’s most powerful, most focused
oppositions. A true protagonist has the willpower to take on this ultimate
dilemma, make the ultimate decision, and take the ultimate action as a last
attempt to achieve his purpose and restore life’s balance. His final action
may fail, but not until he has exhausted his willpower.
(2) Multiple capabilities
The protagonist’s mental, emotional, and physical capacities combine to
propel his life’s pursuit to or beyond his personal limits. In every story these
capabilities are different. In one telling he must be young enough, in
another old enough, rich enough, or poor enough, educated or ignorant, and
so on down the list of qualities that allow the reader/audience to believe that
the choices the protagonist makes and the actions he takes are his alone,
true to his nature, and credible.
The effect of his actions must go wide enough and/or deep enough to
bring the story to an ending beyond which the reader/audience cannot
imagine another. Once again, he may or may not get what he wants, but his
efforts will ultimately reveal his full humanity.
To expand events out wide into a story’s social and physical settings,
writers often find their protagonists among the elites: doctors, lawyers,
warriors, politicians, scientists, detectives, executives, crime lords,
celebrities, and the like. An elite’s elevated status gives his actions broad
consequence in the social hierarchy, driving the telling into more and more
lives.
When a story confounds events inward into the hidden realm,
protagonists can be found in any walk of life, so long as they are complex
enough to reward explorations of their depths and flexible enough to
undergo change.
And, of course, a story can take its protagonist both wide and deep at
once. Consider, for example, Jimmy McGill in the longform series Breaking
Bad and its prequel Better Call Saul. When Jimmy’s story opens, he’s a
charming, gregarious street hustler and wannabe lawyer. But when he hides
behind the persona of Saul Goodman, he buries his true self deeper and
deeper inside. At the same time, his storefront legal career expands wider
and wider until he’s embroiled in a billion-dollar meth empire.
(3) An underdog status
Do this: Put your protagonist in the palm of one hand and weigh his mental,
emotional, and physical capacities. Then in the other hand, add up the
power of all antagonistic forces he will confront over the course of the
story: negative thoughts and feelings from his inner life; personal conflicts
with friends, family, and lovers; all obstructing institutions and the people
in them; and finally the physical world from foul weather to lethal diseases
to never enough time.
When you test the strength of your protagonist against the concentrated
force of all negative powers, you should see that the forces of antagonism
virtually overwhelm him, and he is clearly an underdog. He has a chance of
achieving his object of desire, but just that, a chance.
(4) An empathic nature
The moment a reader or an audience member enters a fictional world, he
quickly inspects the story’s value-charged universe, sorting positives from
negatives, rights from wrongs, goods from evils, things of interest from
things of no interest, searching for a Center of Good, a secure place to
attach his empathy.
Definition: The Center of Good is a positive charge of value (e.g.,
justice, goodness, love, etc.) glowing deep within a story that contrasts with
a dark, negative charge (e.g., tyranny, evil, hate, etc.) surrounding it. This
positive light attracts empathy because human beings, in their heart of
hearts, feel they are overall good or right, and so they naturally identify
with their perception of the positive. With a few exceptions, most stories
locate their Center of Good in the protagonist.
Two examples:
Mario Puzo’s Godfather trilogy creates a criminal universe of mafia
families surrounded by corrupt cops and for-hire judges. But the Corleone
family has one positive quality: loyalty. The other crime families betray one
another and stab each other in the back. That makes them the bad bad guys.
The Godfather’s family sticks together and defends each other, making
them the good bad guys. When an audience finds this positive center in the
Corleones, they instinctively identify with gangsters.
In The Silence of the Lambs, novelist Thomas Harris splits the reader’s
focus toward two centers of good: The heroism of FBI agent Clarice
Starling draws immediate empathy, but as the story unfolds, a second hub
of affinity forms in Dr. Hannibal Lecter.
First, Harris places Lecter in a dark, dishonorable world: The FBI
attempts to bribe him with the false offer of a prison cell with an ocean
view; his jailer is a sadist and publicity hound; the cops Lecter kills are
dullards.
Second, bright lights glow within Lecter: He has a massive IQ, a keen
sense of humor, and a remarkably calm, polite manner while living in hell.
Lecter’s positive qualities inside a negative society cause the reader to
shrug, “So he eats people. There are worse things. Offhand I can’t think
what, but there must be.” The reader identifies, thinking, “If I were a
psychopathic, cannibalistic serial killer, I’d want to be just like Lecter. He’s
cool.”
(5) Intrigue
A story’s protagonist is its most complex and therefore most intriguing
character. When two qualities within a character contradict each other, the
reader/audience naturally wonders, “Who is this guy?” Pursuing the answer
to that question glues them to the telling.
(6) Length and depth
The protagonist stands in the story’s foreground and occupies the
reader’s/audience’s mind for the greater part of the telling. As a result, his
subconscious motivations and hidden desires are ultimately revealed with
each pressure-filled choice he makes. By climax, this exposure makes him
the character known in greatest depth.
(7) Capacity for change
Human beings gather knowledge over time, discover new beliefs, adapt to
new conditions, and adjust to an aging body, but their inner natures tend to
stay fixed and their core selves, with few exceptions, do not change. They
may daydream about change, especially for the better, but that’s more wish
fulfillment than likelihood. Because most human beings keep their essential
selves intact over a lifetime, characters who do not change seem the most
true-to-life, the most realistic.
For those characters who do change, the more they arc, the more they
lean away from the realistic and toward the symbolic. A character
progressing to the positive evolves toward the ideal; one descending to the
negative devolves toward a dark archetype. And of all cast members, the
one most likely to undergo change is the protagonist.
Protagonists may reform like Scrooge (A Christmas Carol) or Jesse
Pinkman (Breaking Bad), or learn their lesson like Theo Decker (The
Goldfinch) or Fleabag (Fleabag), or degenerate like Jackie Peyton (Nurse
Jackie) or Truman Capote (Capote), or become disillusioned like Tony
Webster (The Sense of an Ending) or David Lurie (Disgrace), or grow into
their author like Davy Copperfield (David Copperfield) or Stephen Dedalus
(A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man).
(8) Insight
When conflict throws a character’s life out of balance, his mind seeks
insight into how and why things happen, how and why people do the things
they do. The most powerful conflicts fester in the protagonist, making this
character the one most likely to experience an epiphany.
In ancient times, the word “epiphany” named the moment a deity
suddenly appeared before its awestruck worshippers. In the modern usage,
the term means a flash of insight into reality—an intuitive perception of an
essential cause or force hidden beneath the surface of things. When a
protagonist undergoes an epiphany, a startling realization spins him from
ignorance to knowledge, from unawareness to a mind-blazing truth. With
this flash of acuity, his life pivots, and the consequences make or break him.
Tragedies often climax on an epiphany of identity, a startling flash of
self-recognition as the protagonist suddenly discovers the truth of who he
really is. When Sophocles’s Oedipus realizes that he is his wife’s son and
his father’s murderer, he gouges out his eyes. Shakespeare’s Othello drives
a knife into his heart when he realizes that he was duped into murdering his
innocent wife. In Anton Chekhov’s The Seagull, Konstantin kills himself
when he realizes Nina will never love him. In The Empire Strikes Back,
when Luke Skywalker discovers that Darth Vader is his father, he attempts
suicide.
In a classical comedy, a humble servant learns that he has an identical
twin with an identifying mole. Their mother gave birth on a storm-tossed
sea and they were swept apart. What’s more, their mother is queen of a
distant land, making them heirs to a fortune. Two thousand four hundred
years of comedy writing later, Larry David, in an episode of Curb Your
Enthusiasm, learns that he is not Jewish but was in fact adopted from a very
Christian, very Scandinavian family in Minnesota. After visiting his birth
family, Larry realizes he’d rather be a Jew.
Beyond discoveries of identity, epiphanies often expose a disquieting
insight. In his last soliloquy, Macbeth laments that life has no more
meaning than “a tale told by an idiot.”
Four hundred years later, in Samuel Beckett’s Waiting for Godot, Pozzo
bemoans the brevity of life. He imagines a woman in labor straddling a pit,
her baby’s life lived in the time it takes to fall out of her womb and into a
tomb. As he puts it, “They give birth astride a grave, the light gleams an
instant, then it’s night once more.”
In Nurse Jackie, Jackie Peyton’s epiphany forces her to admit that she
turned to drugs because she couldn’t cope with her firstborn’s endless
crying. Her addiction, therefore, is her own fault. This truth, however, fails
to save her life because she hasn’t the willpower to quit.
Epiphanies are all-or-nothing events and, for that reason, dangerous.
They may create a story’s most magnificent, memorable moment… or its
most embarrassingly overwritten moment.
Onstage or on-screen, an epiphany demands excellent writing before,
during, and after the character’s burst of insight and an excellent actor to
pull it off. At the Act Three climax of Casablanca, for example, when Rick
Blaine gazes into his future and says, “It seems that destiny has taken a
hand,” the audience enjoys a plunge into the ocean of subtext beneath his
words.
Prose epiphanies, however, pose an even greater risk. A rush of
illumination igniting a character’s mind tests not only an author’s gift for
language but the reader’s imagination and the character’s credibility. That’s
why prose descriptions of meaning-packed, life-changing, all-at-once
insights often turn purple.
Protagonist Variations
In most stories, the protagonist is a single human being—man, woman,
child. This central role, however, can be filled in a variety of ways:
Co-protagonists
Rather than creating one multidimensional protagonist, you can achieve
complexity by uniting two characters with sharply contrasting qualities into
a duet of co-protagonists:
On the page, Rudyard Kipling’s “The Man Who Would Be King” melds
Daniel Dravot and Peachey Carnehan into a multifaceted team. Crime series
such as Janet Evanovich and Lee Goldberg’s Fox and O’Hare novels also
employ co-protagonists.
On-screen, William Goldman joined the Sundance Kid with Butch
Cassidy; Callie Khouri did the same for Louise and Thelma. Dick Wolf cast
co-protagonists in his long-running series Law and Order as teams of police
and prosecutors.
Onstage, modernist works such as Tom Stoppard’s Rosencrantz and
Guildenstern Are Dead, Beckett’s Waiting for Godot, and Ionesco’s The
Chairs use dual protagonists but not to create complexity. Rather, for the
opposite reason: to stress sameness. Each duet is dimensionless,
nonrealistic, and virtually indistinguishable.
Group Protagonists
A collection of characters becomes a story’s protagonist under two
conditions: (1) despite superficial differences, at heart they all share the
same desire; (2) as they struggle to reach their goals, they suffer and benefit
mutually—what happens to one affects them all. If one individual has a
success, they all share in it and move forward together. If one has a loss,
they all fall back together.
Film examples: Seven Samurai, The Dirty Dozen, Inglorious Basterds.
How large can a group protagonist become? In Battleship Potemkin,
Sergei Eisenstein cast thousands of sailors and citizens in a revolt against
tyranny. In October: Ten Days That Shook the World, Russia’s entire
working-class population became Eisenstein’s massive plural protagonist.
Multi-protagonists
Multiplot tellings have no central plot. Instead, they unite a number of story
lines around a theme, and then either crosscut them (Crash) or string them
end to end (Wild Tales). Each has its own protagonist.
Split Protagonists
In novels such as Robert Louis Stevenson’s The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll
and Mr. Hyde and Chuck Palahniuk’s Fight Club, two sides of a split
personality struggle for control of a protagonist’s moral self.
On-screen, Woody Allen’s Crimes and Misdemeanors two crosscut
stories mirror each other until their protagonists merge in the audience’s
mind as one weak-willed, immoral, self-deceived loser. Charlie Kaufman’s
Adaptation and every film that ever featured a werewolf do much the same.
Passive Protagonists
When a storyteller shifts to an inner battlefield and engages in
psychological warfare over a protagonist’s morality, mentality, or humanity,
the character may seem passive to those around him. Because his
unexpressed thoughts rarely convert to action, outwardly he floats through
his days, a philosophical tourist with a paralyzed persona, while inwardly
he wages a desperate but invisible struggle not to make the same mistake
again and again, or to calm a mind flooded with too many choices, or to
force a choice between the lesser of two evils.
Examples: In Anna Burn’s Milkman, an unnamed protagonist reads
novels while walking, doing her best to avoid life and a creepy stalker. In
About Schmidt, Schmidt (Jack Nicholson) spends his retirement years
writing letters to an orphan in Africa, filled with regrets about his life—
past, present, and future.
Switching Protagonists
When a character misleads the reader/audience into believing that he’s the
story’s protagonist, and then dies, exits or turns into an antagonist, the story
jolts in a radically new direction.
For the first half of The Killing Fields Sydney Schanberg, an American
journalist, plays the protagonist, but as he flees the Cambodian genocide,
the story-torch passes to his cameraman, Dith Pran, who takes over the film
and carries it to climax.
Psycho kills its protagonist halfway through the film, making her death
all the more shocking and the villain far more frightening. The victim’s
sister and boyfriend then step in as co-protagonists.
Metaphorical Protagonists
Metaphors for humanity—cartoons (Bugs Bunny), animals (Babe),
inanimate objects (Wall-E)—can become protagonists if, in the face of
conflict, they make free will choices to pursue their desires.
First Circle Characters
The first circle contains major characters who help or hinder, focus or
defocus, support or service the protagonist. A support role changes the
course of events; a service role does not. In a classic crime story, for
example, the cop who discovers a murder victim’s body is a service
character; the coroner who deduces a clue to the killer’s identity is a support
character; the detective who apprehends and punishes the killer is the
protagonist.
A role, whether supporting or servicing, becomes major when multiple
traits and dimensions round out his character, while at the same time, his
unique actions and single-minded purpose invites readers and audiences to
picture his life outside the enacted events. In other words, a major character
has the potential for a story of his own.
These roles have many possible uses:
Subplot Protagonists
The protagonist of a subplot that intersects the central plot and affects its
course of action is a major support character. The protagonist of a subplot
that runs parallel to the central plot but does not affect its course is a major
service character. In The Godfather, for example, Michael’s ascension to
godfather arcs the central plot. The Tessio betrayal subplot turns and
supports this arc, while the love story subplot deepens and services his
character.
The Focal Character
A cast’s focal character is the role that draws the most interest from the
reader/audience, and is, therefore, almost always the protagonist. In rare
tellings, however, a character who adds exceptional energy or excitement to
the story becomes the focus of attention and decenters the telling away from
the protagonist. Antonio is the title character of Shakespeare’s The
Merchant of Venice, but Shylock steals the spotlight. Clarice Starling plays
protagonist in The Silence of the Lambs, but Hannibal Lecter draws focus.
Christine is the protagonist of Gaston Leroux’s novel The Phantom of the
Opera, but the focal character is the Phantom.
The Foil Character
In the eighteenth century, jewelers found that by backing a diamond with a
thin sheet of reflective foil they could double a gem’s intensity. Writers put
this same principle to work when they use a foil role to enhance a
protagonist.1
Foils service protagonists in numerous ways:
1. They illuminate the protagonist.
When a thing is compared to its opposite, understanding sharpens. A black
chair sitting against a white wall seems all the more dark. To hone your
protagonist’s image, stand him next to a counterpointing foil.
Examples: Sancho Panza, Doctor Watson, and Arnold Rothstein are
three chubby foils who comically contrast with their rail-thin protagonists:
Don Quixote, Sherlock Holmes, and Nucky Thompson. The duo of Mr.
Spock and Captain Kirk pit solemn seriousness against fun-loving daring.
Casablanca juxtaposes Captain Renault’s sexual adventures to Rick’s
romantic anguish; Victor Lazlo’s anti-Fascist heroism to Rick’s political
indifference. Dual protagonists such as Thelma/Louise and Butch Cassidy /
Sundance Kid act as each other’s foil.
2. They see what the protagonist cannot.
The protagonist’s struggle to reach his object of desire often blinds him as
the spine of action sweeps him from one impulsive judgment to another. A
calm foil may serve as the voice of reason.
Example: In the longform series Ozark, husband and wife Marty and
Wendy Byrde (Jason Bateman and Laura Linney) take turns playing each
other’s foil. When one loses sight of their goal and acts impulsively, the
other calms him or her down and refocuses the couple’s spine of action.
3. They contradict the protagonist’s morality.
A foil could define the protagonist by striking either a morally superior or

an inferior counterpoint.
Examples: In Mean Streets, the criminally crazed Johnny Boy (Robert
De Niro) is the childhood pal of the deeply religious Charlie (Harvey
Keitel). In Nurse Jackie, the steady-handed Dr. Eleanor O’Hara (Eve Best)
balances the wild gyrations of Jackie Peyton (Edie Falco). In Platoon, the
good Sergeant Elias (Willem Dafoe) and the evil Sergeant Barnes (Tom
Berenger) fight for the soul of Private Chris Taylor (Charlie Sheen). In A
Tale of Two Cities, Charles Dickens creates two characters who look as
alike as twins, but then polarizes them into the noble Charles Darney versus
the corrupt Sydney Carton. Bury an immoral foil in the subconscious of a
morally pure mind and he becomes The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr.
Hyde.
4. They guide us to the protagonist.
To create story-long suspense, an author may wrap his protagonist in
mystery—no backstory, no friends, no confessions. This arouses intense
curiosity about the character’s unspoken thoughts and desires, his true
feelings and plans. Having provoked questions about the inner life, the
writer then withholds the answers to create tension. The reader/audience,
with nowhere else to turn, looks to other characters, especially a foil, for
clues and insights.
The foil may only partially understand the protagonist, or, for that
matter, may completely misunderstand him, but in either case, every time
the foil interacts with the protagonist the reader/audience learns a little
something about the central character—what could be true, what is not true,
what more they need to know.
A wise foil may funnel deep perspectives into the protagonist’s hidden
truths. If, for example, the central character’s nature is more than
mysterious, if he undergoes experiences of a unique intensity beyond even
the most worldly-wise reader/audience, if the protagonist is a saint, genius,
or madman like Captain Ahab, then the reader/audience may need an
Ishmael to pilot them through the churning depths of obsession, or, more
recently, a Dr. Melfi to make sense of the chaos raging inside Tony
Soprano.
5. They interpret a protagonist’s epiphany.
When a protagonist undergoes a sudden, massive epiphany, he may respond
to it quietly, inwardly, secretly. The change this causes may never reveal
itself overtly, but a foil who knows him well can read his enigmatic
behaviors and interpret his flashes of insight. The foil then becomes a Jesse
Pinkman to the protagonist’s Walter White.
6. They interpret the protagonist’s complexities.
Epiphanies aside, multidimensional characters often need more than one
foil to guide the reader/audience to a full understanding of the protagonist’s
inner machinations.
Consider the longform series Succession. The clear-thinking Kendall
Roy, plus his three scheming siblings Connor, Siobhan, and Roman, as well
as Karolina, Frank, and other corporate survivors, all give us slivers of
insight into the ruthless Logan Roy.
7. They ground the protagonist in his setting.
A complex protagonist often strikes us as an extraordinary human being—
so extraordinary, in fact, that he may project archetypal overtones such as
warrior, healer, trickster, goddess, magician, etc. The more a protagonist’s
qualities inflate toward the symbolic, the more he risks losing credibility in
the eyes of the reader/audience. The protagonists of Shakespeare’s
tragedies, Hemingway’s novels, and the DC Universe all take this high-
speed risk.
The safety belt is a down-to-earth foil—a Horatio for Hamlet, an
Anselmo for Robert Jordan, a Lois Lane for Clark Kent. Because foils seem
typical of their society, they ground the protagonist in reality and yet at the
same time make him seem unique. In fact, a story’s entire cast can be seen
as a massive foil that gives the protagonist weight and credibility. (More of
this in Chapter 17.)
The POV Character
Point of view is normally funneled through the protagonist. But not always.
Dr. Watson, a first-person narrator, is the POV character in Arthur Conan
Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes stories, but Holmes is both protagonist and focal
character. Nick Carraway and Jay Gatsby strike the same relationships in F.
Scott Fitzgerald’s The Great Gatsby.
Major Support Roles
From the protagonist’s point of view, major support characters either help
him or hinder him. Some influence events to the positive, others to the
negative. They further or block his efforts, bending him either toward or
away from his object of desire. Chief among these are antagonistic
characters who directly oppose the protagonist’s struggle to rebalance life.
In action genres from High Adventure to Crime to Horror, we call these
characters villains. They range from purely evil monsters to complex
antiheroes. In the six character-driven genres (see Chapter 14), the
protagonist often discovers that he is his own worst enemy.
Major Service Roles
A major service role seems to have a life of his own going on outside the
reader’s/audience’s view. He doesn’t turn the story’s events and they don’t
change him. He has a fixed personality combined with a kind of freedom,
so that regardless of the story’s outcome, he is an end in himself who can’t
be otherwise. Any function he serves seems to happen as he passes through
the story.
For example: In Charles Dickens’s Bleak House, Miss Flite is a sweet,
elderly, delusional woman obsessed with lawsuits. Her family was
destroyed by a long-running case, and so she sits in court every day
watching trials, some comic, others tragic. She says things people think
crazy, but they turn out to have symbolic meaning. She owns a bevy of
caged birds that she plans to set free on Judgment Day.
A character can fulfill any one or all of these major functions. However,
if such creatures become overly interesting and out of proportion to their
cast functions, they may mutiny, take over the telling and sink it.
In The Fighter, for example, the protagonist, Micky Ward (Mark
Wahlberg), seems rather bland compared to Dicky Eklund (Christian Bale),
who nearly steals the film.
Second Circle Characters
By limiting a character’s dimensions to just one (sad/cheerful), or, even
less, a single trait (always cheerful), and then reducing his appearance time,
you can compress an entire human being inside a role from the middle
circle. Nonetheless, all levels of conflict operate in all human beings.
Therefore, no character, not even the lowliest bit part, should be imagined
on only one plane. Which level you emphasize must fit your purpose. For
reasons of exposition you may choose to make a coffee shop cook a gossip,
but giving thought to his inner, private, and personal selves may enrich his
banter with an amusing style.
Second Circle Support Roles
Middle-ground support characters help or hinder a story’s course but do not
have a personal magnetism to interest us beyond the scenes they are in. No
one cares what Claudius and Laertes do when Hamlet’s not around, or how
Milo Minderbinder spends his day without John Yossarian in Catch-22, or
what Ida Sessions feels when she’s not on the phone to J. J. Gittes in
Chinatown.
Second Circle Service Roles
The chief asset of a second circle service role is predictability of behavior.
Archetypes (earth mother), types (the klutz), or stocks (gym trainer) ground
the story’s setting. Their single external trait may vary from scene to scene:
A loudmouth, for example, is loud in different ways on a phone or in a
restaurant, but he is always loud. If that changes, he’s either not the same
character or he’s added a dimension.
Third Circle Characters
Minor characters move at the greatest distance from the protagonist, usually
appearing only once in a telling and almost always playing a service role.
On rare occasions a bit part may be given a moment of intensity (a terrified
face in a Horror film), but generally they are kept dimensionless and
anonymous (bus driver). Like a newscaster on a television playing in the
background, minor roles may pour exposition into the telling, but like dead
bodies on a battlefield, they’re props that service the plot.
These nether reaches include the background masses, the social
component of a story’s setting. Like a crowd screaming in a stadium, they
represent the density of people through which principal characters must
move.
Narrators
Narrators provide readers and audiences with exposition about the story’s
physical and social settings, past lives of the cast, as well as the traits and
qualities of observable behaviors in the characters. Narrators come in
multiple varieties depending on person, medium, and reliability.
First, three possible persons:
1. A first-person narrator is a character who tells his story from the
page, stage, or voice-over, speaking directly to the eavesdropping
reader/audience.
2. A second-person narrator speaks as if he were the reader/audience
personally experiencing the story’s events. Instead of the pronouns
“I”/“me” or “she”/“he”/“they,” the author calls on the pronoun
“you,” as in, “You fool, look what you’ve done now.” “You” turns
the reader into a protagonist, musing and straining within himself.
3. A third-person narrator is not a character, but rather the voice of
knowledge and awareness an author adapts to convey exposition.
This mind exists outside events, and therefore the reader/audience
has no interest in either its well-being or its future.
These three storytellers may inhabit any of the three media. They may or
may not know all relevant facts, may or may not be honest about them even
if they do, and, therefore, from the reader’s/audience’s POV, they may or
may not be 100 percent reliable. But in either case, their relative reliability
must serve the author’s purpose.
Reliable Narrators
Onstage: First-person narrators, such as Tom Wingfield in Tennessee
Williams’s The Glass Menagerie, tell us facts, although his emotional
memories often cloud his recollections. Second-person narration calls the
audience up onstage and invites them to participate and improvise. Third-
person narrators, such as the Stage Manager in Thornton Wilder’s Our
Town, or the Narrator in Erwin Piscator’s stage adaptation of War and
Peace, are wise and reliable.
On the Page: First-person novels are often narrated by quiet, empathetic
characters who observe adventurous, duplicitous characters: The Great
Gatsby, Brideshead Revisited, and All the King’s Men and their like. Full-
length second-person narration is difficult to pull off (Jay McInerney’s
Bright Lights, Big City is a famous exception) and for that reason, rare.
Trustworthy, all-knowing third-person narrators have told novels since their
invention—Jonathan Franzen’s The Corrections is a twenty-first-century
example.
On-screen: The first-person narrators of Annie Hall and Memento tell
the truth as they understand it. In a second-person experiment, the camera
in Lady of the Lake becomes the protagonist (and with that the audience’s
eyes), and then stays locked in that subjective POV as it moves throughout
the film. In Y Tu Mama Tambien, the third-person narrator is worldly and
reliable.
The Unreliable Narrator
When one character lies to another and we see the deception for what it is,
this insight enriches our experience. But if a narrator, such as Roger
“Verbal” Kint (Kevin Spacey) in The Usual Suspects, deliberately deceives
us, what purpose does unreliable exposition serve? Why would a writer
mislead us about fictional facts? Two reasons: enhanced credibility and
enhanced curiosity.
Enhanced Credibility
Dimensionless roles that symbolize pure ideas such as Wisdom, Innocence,
Good, Evil, and the like only feel at home in fantasies and allegories.
Flawless characters seem unreal; real people are scarred with imperfections.
They misperceive the world around them and self-deceive the truth within
themselves for at least two reasons: First, the natural human tendency to
distort or misinterpret facts, to rationalize and excuse failures, to gain
advantage with feints and lies. Second, in an insane mind, memory
disconnects from reality itself, but even in the most rational mind, memory
is notoriously unreliable. In realistic tellings, therefore, imperfect narrators
reflect our human reality and gain a greater credibility.
But beyond their flaws, the foremost reason for unreliability in first-
person narrators is that sooner or later they talk about themselves, and when
they do, truth becomes difficult. As noted previously, whenever a line of
dialogue begins with the pronoun “I,” what follows is, to some degree, a lie.
The mind finds unvarnished honesty about itself next to impossible; a self-
protective shield softens the blow. As a result, all statements of self are self-
serving, while at the same time ironically deepening the reader’s/audience’s
belief in the character.
Greater Curiosity
When a first-person narrator lies, a character lies. For example, throughout
Iain Banks’s novel The Wasp Factory, Frank, the narrator, tells us that as an
infant he was attacked by a vicious dog and castrated. At the novel’s
climax, however, Frank reveals that in fact his father fed him lies about the
dog attack as well as experimental hormones ever since he was too little to
remember. Now in his teens, Frank confesses that he is and always has been
a girl. With that, the reader’s curiosity leaps from surprise to shock.
When a third-person narrator lies, an author lies. Unreliability in a third-
person narrator seems self-defeating. The very reason an author assumes a
third-person voice is to build the reader’s trust in fictional facts. So when
third-person narrators distort exposition, the reader/audience either tosses
the story aside in annoyance or grows ever more interested. Some authors
simply tell us on page one that they are no more trustworthy than a
character. In Slaughterhouse-Five, for example, Kurt Vonnegut delights in
calling attention to his fallibility, making us wonder what’s true, what’s
false, and if those terms even matter. For those who go along with these
authors, curiosity about trustworthiness multiplies tension.
Faulty interpretations and biased beliefs are easily expressed in images
and language. With just a slight warp in point of view, each mode becomes
unreliable. For this reason, the two most subjective media for storytelling
are the screen and the page.
On-screen
Unreliable first-person: Protagonists may become unreliable due to faulty
memories (How I Met Your Mother), faulty knowledge (Forrest Gump), or
outright deceit (The Usual Suspects). In the longform series The Affair, the
co-protagonists see the same event from two very personal POVs. In
Rashomon, four characters recall the same fateful event in four radically
different ways. In The Man Who Lies, the same character tells his wartime
story seven different ways, depending on who he’s talking to and what he
wants out of them.
Unreliable second-person: This is yet to be attempted on-screen but
may await us in the future of virtual reality.
Unreliable third-person: A film’s writer/director/editor can distort a
story’s past in various ways: a false flashback (The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari),
a false reality (A Beautiful Mind), or a falsified history (Inglorious
Basterds).
On the Page
Unreliable first-person: Authors often call on unreliability to express an
unstable mind. For example, the unnamed narrator of Edgar Allan Poe’s
“The Tell-Tale Heart” and Chief Bromden in Ken Kesey’s One Flew over
the Cuckoo’s Nest. The same is true for protagonists burdened with
ignorance or immaturity, such as Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the
Rye. When the narrator purposefully deceives the reader, unreliability is the
MO, as in Agatha Christie’s The Murder of Roger Ackroyd. In Caroline
Kepnes’s You, Joe, the first-person narrator, recounts his romance with
Guinevere, the love of his life… until he murders her. In Iain Pears’s An
Instance of the Fingerpost, four characters, one of whom is insane, tell the
same story from their biased points of view until the reader has no clear
idea of what actually happened.
Unreliable second-person: In A Prayer for the Dying by Stewart
O’Nan, the “you-as-protagonist” slowly goes mad.
Unreliable third-person: In Home by Toni Morrison, narration splits
between the protagonist in the first person and the author as a seemingly
omniscient third person. These alternating voices, however, often contradict
one another. Because war and racial violence have poisoned the
protagonist’s memory, the facts fail him, but then the same becomes true for
the narrator as she realizes that no one can know anything for certain.
Onstage
The theatre is storytelling’s most objective medium. For twenty-five
centuries, audiences have treated the stage as a viewing platform to display
characters who do not see us so we can see them for who they are. This
rigorously reliable third-person form demands imaginative writing and
staging to orient a theatre audience to see things through an unreliable first-,
second-, or third-person sensibility.
Unreliable first-person: In Dancing at Lughnasa, contradictions
between the onstage narrator’s memories of his childhood and the lives of
his five older sisters make us realize that there are as many pasts as there
are minds to remember it.
Unreliable second-person: In Florian Zeller’s The Father, the stage
itself becomes the mind of a man with dementia. The audience, as if living
inside the protagonist’s head, senses his desperate struggle to control reality.
A character introduced as his daughter in one scene reappears in the next
played by a different actor, suddenly becoming a stranger to him and us.
Two seemingly sequential moments, we slowly realize, in fact happened ten
years apart. As his confusion grows, so does ours, until finally, his inner
chaos evokes a direct and personal experience of what it must be like when
your mind falls apart.
Unreliable third-person: In Mark Haddon’s novel The Curious
Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time, Christopher, an autistic first-person
narrator, tells a uniquely eccentric story. To translate his mind’s distortions,
the London stage used literal smoke, mirrors, and ear-pounding sound to
express the terrifying unreliability of autism.
7

THE OUTER CHARACTER
Human beings, as social animals, need to manage the impressions they
make on others. They do so by playing a great variety of roles. The
evolutionary purpose of these recitals is to get along, get ahead, and get
laid. Because their survival depended on stellar performances, our
ingenious ancestors evolved consummate skills for imitation and
expression. In short, humans are now, and always have been, actors.
This doesn’t mean we’re insincere. It’s simply the commonsense
realization that as we move from situation to situation, we subtly shift from
self to self, depending on the relationship of the moment: priest/confessor,
boss/employee, wife/husband, stranger/stranger. A human being can swing
from acting like a child to acting like a lover to acting like a New Yorker, or
all three at once.
So once you have circled the orbits of your cast galaxy, you will need to
bring each character to life. In this chapter we explore the composite of
vivid social and personal selves that make first and ongoing impressions on
readers and audiences. This collection of outer-facing behaviors,
mannerisms, and personality traits becomes the role’s Characterization.

CHARACTERIZATION
To organize your creative work, divide complex characters into two aspects:
characterization and true character.
The term true character names the crew of inner selves—core, agent,
hidden—that live out of sight inside the mind and will be the subject of the
next chapter.
Characterization names the composite of social and personal selves—
the sum total of all observable and inferable traits. Discovery of the many
traits expressed through these selves is hard, imaginative work. So try
following your character around 24/7. As you do, you will come to know all
her explicit traits, such as name, age, sexuality, her home and how she
furnishes it, her occupation and the living it gives her. You will learn the
grammar of her body language—gestures, facial expressions, tones of
voice, moods, and vibes.
By listening carefully to what she says and closely observing how she
treats people, you can also sense her implicit traits, such as her talents and
intelligence, beliefs and attitudes, moods and hopes—all that she appears to
be, all that the world sees.
THE THREE FUNCTIONS OF

CHARACTERIZATION
Characterization supports your story with three primary functions:
credibility, originality, intrigue.
Credibility
What’s a writer’s worst fear? That the reader or audience will find her work
boring? Dislike her characters? Disagree with her ideas? Possibly. But the
greatest dread, it seems to me, is disbelief.
When a reader or audience does not believe in the actions characters
take, when they sour on the telling, thinking thoughts like, “I don’t believe
that kind of woman would do things like that,” they toss the book aside or
click the remote or head for an exit.
Credibility begins with characterization. Readers and audiences involve
themselves when they sense an honest connection between the cast’s
mental, emotional, and physical traits and what they say, feel, and do.
Honest characterizations induce readers and audiences to surrender to a
telling, even the most fantastic, as if it were actual—Harry Potter and Luke
Skywalker are two famous examples.
Originality
We do not go to a storyteller to learn what we already know. We go with a
prayer: “Please let me gain insights into life I’ve never had before; let the
characters be originals I’ve never met before.”
Originality begins with specificity. The more generalized the
characterization, the more imitative, predictable, and inflexible the role; but
the more specific the characterization, the more original, surprising, and
changeable the character.
Suppose you felt that your character, in general, would be fashion
conscious. If you then followed that up with exhaustive research into the
state of fashion today, plus firsthand observations of trends you see on the
street, plus hours spend faux shopping in the hippest of shops, filling
notebooks full of details, taking photos with your phone, then you could
come away with a one-of-a-kind characterization, a look no one has ever
quite seen before—a credible original.
Intrigue
A unique characterization captures our curiosity, making us want to know
the true, inner character who lives behind the mask of outer traits.
Suppose we were shown a drunken, abusive, angry, out-of-work
husband, sitting in a darkened living room in his underwear, swilling a can
of beer, sweating away, running his grease-stained fingers through his
beard, watching an NFL rerun. Would that image make us wonder, “But
who is he really?” Doubtful. Clichés destroy intrigue.
A clichéd characterization raises a question that answers itself: Who is
this character? Exactly who she seems to be. Like a block of cement, she’s
the same on the inside as the outside. To create creditable characters that
spike the reader’s/audience’s curiosity and reward their intrigue, build a
fascinating world and populate this setting with equally fascinating
originals.

SETTING: WORLD BUILDING
Characterization begins in the genes with traits like gender and hair color,
but once a character is born, an array of physical and social settings buffet
and mold her outer selves. Time and space frame all such events, greatly
influencing outer appearances and behaviors.
Time comes in two dimensions: location and duration. An author could
locate a story in a contemporary setting, historical period, hypothetical
future, or timeless fantasy. Within each period, the storyteller also sets the
duration of the telling in relationship to the lives of her characters.
Storytelling time and lifetime could be equal: My Dinner with Andre is a
two-hour film about a two-hour dinner. Or the telling could span days,
months, years, even a lifetime: Terrance Winter’s longform series
Boardwalk Empire and Jonathan Franzen’s novel The Corrections.
Storied space is also two-dimensional: physical location plus level of
conflict. A story could be found anywhere—a mountain peak, a farm, a
space station, a certain street in a certain city, a certain building on that
street, and a certain room in that building. Once set, the physical location
houses a cast of characters, and so the writer must determine its level(s) of
conflict: physical (woman against nature), social (woman against the law),
personal (woman against her in-laws), inner (self against self), or any
combination.
Patterns of behavior, usually routine, sometimes ritualized, begin at birth
and develop through infancy. Daily needs generate activities such as eating
and playing, greetings and goodbyes. Humdrum as these customs may be,
they embed themselves in a role’s characterization.1

MORAL IMAGINATION
An author with a strong moral imagination sees meaning in every aspect of
a story’s setting; nothing and no one is neutral—not cop, prop, or raindrop.
This writer marshals a constellation of charged values so that everything in
her story rings either positively, negatively, or with an ironic fusion of both.
Nothing is without value. All things neutral are kept off-page, offstage,
offscreen.
In the same sense that the writer is the character’s first actor, she’s also
the story’s first production designer, intent on making every element in a
setting reveal, reflect, counterpoint, or change at least one character,
perhaps the whole cast. When an automobile enters, a writer without moral
imagination sees it as no more than a vehicle, but to a production designer it
comes charged with a value. As a bright pink Maserati pulls up to an opera
house, the writer’s choices not only characterize its absurdly wealthy owner
but the parking attendant who takes her key with a sarcastic smile.
A moral imagination also ranks values by importance from most to least.
Life/Death is a possibility that shadows all stories, but a psychothriller may
foreground it as its core value, while a Romantic Comedy backgrounds it as
irrelevant. The core value of a War Story is Victory/Defeat, but Life/Death
haunts every action. Without a moral imagination, a setting amounts to little
more than furniture.2

CULTURAL RESTRAINTS
Time, place, and people not only restrain what a character can do but
stipulate what she must not do. As a character enters a scene, webs of
restraint curtail her relationship with every person and object: how to walk
safely down a dark alley, how to respond to someone’s touch, what to say in
a courtroom. In principle, the more positive the relationships that surround a
character’s life, the more restricted, more civilized her behavior. The
reverse is also true: When a character has nothing to lose, she’s capable of
anything.

PHYSICAL SETTINGS
Like all things in life, the world’s physical and temporal forces—lethal
diseases, the car that won’t start, not enough time to get something done,
too far to go to get what you need—cut both ways: Sunshine tans you or
burns you. Farms and cities provide food and shelter, then pollute rivers
with fertilizers and fill the air with noxious pollutants.
Environments shape the people who live in them. Scandinavia and the
Mediterranean produce people with distinctively different dispositions.
Why? The weather. Objects can prompt the conscious mind in one direction
and the subconscious in another: Putting a briefcase on a church pew makes
people feel competitive; Japan reduced suicides by installing streetlights
that gave off a blue glow; the smell of a cleaning liquid makes coal miners
want to tidy up.3
When creating a story’s physical setting, ask questions in two directions:
(1) How does my story’s time, space, and objects affect the personalities of
my characters? (2) How do the setting’s antagonistic forces thwart my
characters’ desires?

SOCIAL SETTINGS
A character and her society constantly interact. Social settings provide
various groups—nationalities, religions, neighborhoods, schools,
professions—to which an individual aspires or rebels. Either way, they
anchor her identity.
For example, the two cultures known as scientists and artists tend to
inspire two very contrasted personalities. The same can be said about the
citizens of small southern towns versus big northern cities, or kindergarten
teachers versus porn stars. Yet within the shared traits of any community,
the variety of personalities seems limitless.
The most striking feature of massive social systems is the price they
extract for membership. After successfully climbing a corporate pyramid,
an executive may become a superbly efficient employee but a woefully
deficient human being. Make no mistake, however, institutions couldn’t
dehumanize without help. Many persons secretly welcome their loss of soul
and live comfortably inside a shell of self-deception. Cracking it open
would demand blunt force honesty, but they put that away long ago.4
As the story-driven documentaries of Frederick Wiseman (High School,
Basic Training, Hospital, Ballet) make clear, people working inside
institutions unknowingly dehumanize one another. For a lucky few,
however, they sometimes rehumanize.
When creating a setting, think deeply about the effects of its total culture
on your characters, then map out your cast’s specific interactions (see
Chapter Fifteen), and finally, whenever complex characters meet, refine
them with subtle but distinctive social personae.

PERSONAL SETTINGS
The inescapable intimacies of families, friends, and lovers create conflicts
like none other in life: Friends embrace in joy until they betray each other; a
mother’s love shines like the sun until she’s disrespected; nothing explodes
into optimism or crumples into pessimism faster than romance. For reasons
no family member can understand, one sibling joins a religious cult while
another edits American Atheist magazine. Their quarrels never end.
When setting up your story, give extended thought to the relationships of
intimacy within your cast. This level of conflict offers the greatest
opportunity for originality and nuance of characterization.

SETTING VERSUS CHARACTERIZATION
A character’s collisions with her physical, social, and personal worlds etch
her characterization, trait by trait. To trace the influence of these settings on
your cast, consider these eight possible relationships:
1. The setting submerges a character in things such as home, car, job,
and poker club, until her belongings become extensions of her core self. In
Henry James’s The Portrait of a Lady, Madame Merle explains the
principle of character extension to her young admirer, Isabel Archer:
“When you’ve lived as long as I you’ll see that every human being
has his shell and that you must take the shell into account. By the
shell I mean the whole envelope of circumstances. There’s no such
thing as an isolated man or woman; we’re each of us made up of
some cluster of appurtenances. What shall we call our ‘self’? Where
does it begin? Where does it end? It overflows into everything that
belongs to us—and then it flows back again. I know a large part of
myself is in the clothes I choose to wear. I’ve a great respect for
things! One’s self—for other people—is one’s expression of one’s
self; and one’s house, one’s furniture, one’s garments, the books one
reads, the company one keeps—these things are all expressive.”
This principle guided writings such as Michael Ondaatje’s The English
Patient and Jonathan Franzen’s The Corrections.
2. The setting releases forces of antagonism that block the characters’
desires.
In All Is Lost, the Indian Ocean overwhelms a lone sailor; in Three
Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, injustice drives the mother of a
murdered daughter to murder; in Girls Trip, friends, lovers, and ex-lovers
sabotage a bachelorette weekend.
When unexpected reactions suddenly open gaps between what a
character thinks will happen and what actually does, these fractures on the
surface of life send quakes downward to disrupt the subconscious. Then, as
if from the floor of a volcano, unwanted desires surge upward into
improvised, usually unwanted, and often regretted behavior. This movement
radiating down from the setting to the deepest self gives a character depth;
the energy rebounding up from the depths of self to the setting gives a story
power.
3. The setting and its cast form one grand metaphor for reality. Like
pieces of a puzzle, setting and cast fit together; like mirror opposites, they
define each other. The characters give meaning to their setting; the setting
reflects back on its characters; and together they stand for life.
In Lewis Carroll’s Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, Wonderland is
ruled by magic, not physics, and its events obey lunacy, not logic. As a
result, its cast members, including Alice, reflect their setting by undergoing
nonsensical transformations—all working together to create a
multidimensional metaphor for the real world, real people, and human
absurdity.
This pattern of a setting mirroring its cast and a cast mirroring its society
is clearly seen in works such as Succession and Parasite. Each of these
tellings merges Domestic Drama with the Thriller Genre so that the
characters, their families, and their society mutually infect each other. The
stories in turn reflect the politics of the real world in which corruption acts
as the secret cement that holds society together.5
4. The setting floods a character’s mind and sends an onrush of objects,
people, and memories streaming through her thoughts: Toni Morrison’s
Beloved and David Means’s short story “The Knocking.”
5. The setting recedes into the background as the foreground overflows
with characters. In Larry David’s Curb Your Enthusiasm and Matthew
Weiner’s Mad Men, homes, offices, and restaurants serve as picture frames
for character portraits.
6. The setting leads an existence so indifferent, so separate from its
characters that they seem isolated on an island: Tom Stoppard’s
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead and Samuel Beckett’s Waiting for
Godot.
7. The setting’s objects seem to have a will of their own: Edgar Allan
Poe’s “The Fall of the House of Usher” and Brian Evenson’s “A Collapse of
Horses.”
8. The setting’s objects turn into characters. In Lewis Carroll’s Alice
Through the Looking Glass, King, Queen, and Knight, three chess pieces,
join Humpty Dumpty, an anthropomorphic egg, to fill out the cast.
Guardians of the Galaxy features Groot, a humanoid tree, and Rocket, a
genetically engineered raccoon.6

CHARACTERIZATION CHANGE
When your characters confront physical, social, and personal settings, they
put on various outer selves. But none of these encounters are static, and all
can dramatically and believably cause changes in a role’s characterization. I
can think of four commonplace ways:
1. Rebellion: A character may change her setting in hope of sending
her personality in the direction she wants it to go. Rural artists head
for the big city; scholars drop out of school and enlist in the military.
2. Travel: Adventures abroad encourage a hybrid global identity. Youth
culture is one example. Jeans and tennis shoes invented in the USA
and made in Asia are the uniform worn by young people everywhere
on the seven continents.
3. Time Travel: A character can hide in a pocket of time. Nostalgics
live in the past; rat racers live in the future; hedonists live in a
perverse present.7
4. The internet: Borderless travel to electronic geographies inhabited
by citizens with placeless addresses can radically alter an identity.
Online culture is instantaneous, anonymous, depthless, and yet real
because within it, actual things happen to actual people, changing
them for better or worse.

EXPLICIT TRAITS
Once you apply your broad strokes, you need to sharpen the explicit traits
that express your characters as individuals. No one is simply “born that
way.” All complex characterizations display both genetically given and
actively acquired traits. Genetic traits (e.g., vocal timbre) tend to last, while
acquired traits (e.g., vocabulary) evolve. To create any one trait, hundreds
of genes must interact, while at the same time they absorb random impacts
from countless external forces. When you work your imagination through
both sources, traits coalesce into unique, fascinating characterizations.8
Every observable trait sits on a spectrum that ranges from positive to
negative. First are those traits acted out in public—such as
sophisticated/unsophisticated, social/antisocial, and charismatic/boring—
that define a character’s relationships to acquaintances and strangers. Then
come behaviors acted out in private—such as generous/selfish,
encouraging/fault-finding, and concerned/unconcerned—that mark her
personal relationships with family, lovers, and friends.
How many traits or how few? In the visual arts, if an empty canvas is 1
and a completely filled canvas is 2, the optimal density that the eye enjoys
is 1.3, or three-tenths full. The same, I believe, applies to character. Leave
seven-tenths of a protagonist unknown and mysterious. Based on the three-
tenths you express, the reader/audience will fill in the rest as needed from
their own imagination. For if a writer were to dramatize every possible trait
a character might display, the telling would take forever, the role would
become incomprehensible, and the reader/audience would be overwhelmed.
On the other hand, one lone trait—a foreign accent, for example—shrinks a
character to a bit part.
Only the writer can discover the ideal number of traits for any particular
character. A trait’s necessity depends on how much is changed by its
removal. If you want to cut or add a trait, ask, “What, if anything, is lost or
gained?”
What follows is a short list of topics that generate traits of
characterization. Your particular story will add or subtract from them.

NAMES AND NICKNAMES
Like the roles they identify, names express more meaning in fiction than
real life. The deliberate plainness of “John” and “Mary,” for instance, gives
a character a particular quality of ordinariness that someone actually named
“Mary” or “John” would not have.
But be careful. Unless you’re hoping for laughs, avoid blatantly
symbolic names, such as branding a corporate executive “Mr. Biggman.”
On the other hand, in Death of a Salesman, Arthur Miller called his
impoverished salesman Willy Loman, a name that, for some reason, never
raises an eyebrow.
Allegorical genres, such as Fantasy and Horror, create boldly symbolic
settings and add fun by giving their characters emblematic names. For
example, in C. S. Lewis’s religious allegory The Lion, the Witch, and the
Wardrobe, the founder of a new kingdom is named Peter, echoing St. Peter,
founder of the Christian church; the betrayer of the story’s Christ figure is a
witch named Jadis, as in Judas; an autocratic housekeeper is called Mrs.
Macready, as in the imperative “Get ready!”

NAKED AND CLOTHED
Strip your character naked and run a checklist of biographical items: age
and eye appeal, height and weight, texture of muscle and fat, head and body
hair, shade and grain of skin, posture and walk. Use your imagination to
take her shopping and see what she would like to wear, then look in her
closet and find out what she actually owns.
GENDER AND SEX LIFE
What does your character find irresistibly erotic? What is her gender?
What, if anything, does she do about it?
VOCAL TONE AND LANGUAGE
Now close your eyes and listen. Like music, a character’s voice touches
unconscious feelings in readers and audiences. Give each of your characters
a speech style with a unique vocabulary, sentence structure, pitch, diction,
and imagery.9 The total effect becomes a concert of form and content—not
only what she has to say, but how she says it.
FACIAL EXPRESSIONS AND GESTURES
Audiences read the flitting expressions on a character’s face at one-twenty-
fifth of a second. So study what’s in your character’s eyes, and then pull
back to witness her mannerisms, ticks, and energy.
Gestures create a language of their own in three varieties: (1) hand
waves, head tilts, and shoulder shrugs that enrich speech; (2) symbolic
gestures like an erect middle finger; (3) imitative gestures like the thumb
dance that means “Text me.”

PROFESSION AND RECREATION
People often take their identity from what they do for a living. Some take a
second identity from what they do for play: golfer, hunter, body builder, and
the like. Determine what your character does in both cases and then how
much it means to who she is.

HOME AND TRANSPORTATION
Honore de Balzac said, “Show me what a man owns and I’ll tell you who
he is.” The extended self puts its arms around all it owns. For most
characters, their two biggest extra-identities are their house and car. Picture
them both, then look inside.

KNOWLEDGE AND IGNORANCE
What does my character know and not know? The amount and quality of
her formal education set the ground for this question, but beyond that, life
lessons passed and flunked will also matter.

RELIGION AND BELIEFS
A character’s core beliefs, ranging from whether or not God exists to
whether or not people can be trusted, determine her choices in the face of
conflict. So start a conversation about values. Ask your character if human
beings are good or evil, listen to her answer, and keep her talking.

CONVERSATION
If you spend enough time with your character, patterns of talk will recur—
money, politics, death, her husband, her children, her health, the latest tech,
or ancient history. What she talks about is what she thinks about.

MANNERS
Edmund Burke believed that politeness and manners give birth to all other
virtues and are ultimately more important than laws. To put it in twenty-
first-century terms, Burke knew that the quality of respect human beings
show one another sets the tone for every relationship inside a civilization.
How does your character treat people?10

IMPLICIT TRAITS
All characters begin in mystery. Their outer traits offer clues to possibilities
that lie beneath. As scenes unfold, the reader/audience treats the outer traits
of each role as clues to their inner traits. So these must be thoroughly
explored and mined as well. Here are some ways to think about
personalities, intelligence, attitudes, emotions, and more.

VARIETIES OF PERSONALITY
Personalities come in a seemingly infinite array. In 319 BC, Theophrastus, a
student of Aristotle, tried to catalogue every ill-behaved character-type he
could imagine from “Flatterer” to “Slanderer” but stopped at just thirty.11 In
recent centuries, sharp-eyed humorists, such as Mark Twain, have noted
modern versions of the pain in the neck, and some listed noble types as
well, but still, no one sees an end.
To make sense of this anarchy, psychologists have clustered the universe
of personalities inside five grand galaxies. As outlined below, each presents
a spectrum that runs from positive to negative. The personality of any
character you create should fit somewhere inside each of these binaries of
behavior.
1. Openness/Closedness
Openness reflects independence, curiosity, love of the arts, and all things
new. A highly open character enjoys euphoric experiences such as
skydiving and gambling but may seem unpredictable or unfocused.
Conversely, closedness suggests pragmaticism, perseverance, and,
occasionally, dogmatic single-mindedness.
2. Conscientiousness/Capriciousness
Conscientiousness leads to a sense of honor, self-discipline, and planned
rather than impulsive behavior. Extreme conscientiousness is often
perceived as stubbornness and obsession. Capriciousness may be
spontaneous, but it can also seem unreliable and sloppy.
3. Extraversion/Introversion
The extravert leans toward sociability, talkativeness, and assertiveness,
often becoming attention-seeking and overbearing. The introvert may be a
shy, reflective personality and yet perceived as aloof or self-absorbed.
4. Agreeableness/Argumentativeness
Agreeableness tends to reflect compassion and generosity. All-smiles
agreeableness is often seen as naïve or foolish. Argumentativeness can
make one antagonistic, competitive, suspicious, and untrustworthy.
5. Rationality/Neuroticism
Rationality encourages a calm, constant personality which, when pushed to
its limits, may turn coldhearted and indifferent. Neuroticism, on the other
hand, experiences negative emotions such as anger and anxiety, sadness and
fear quickly and extremely. Fragile and insecure, a neurotic hungers for
stability.12
These five spectra, mixed and merged, create endless possibilities. But
beyond these types, I think the reason personalities are so various is simple.
Coincidence. Every human being is a combination of determinism and
chance. The trillions of daily collisions between human genomes and
countless aspects of their environments are so random, so unpredictable, so
riddled with luck, good and bad, that they generate an infinite variety of
selves.
What’s more, personalities bend and flex depending on the nature of
relationships such as boss-employee, parent-child, lover-friend. This pattern
holds, not only for her voice but her gestures, facial expression, posture,
word choices, temperament, and the like. In other words, her personality
sets certain limits, but as she engages in her social and personal

relationships, she shifts expression from one quality to the next.

VARIETIES OF INTELLIGENCE
Have you given your character a mind fit to do what you want her to do? If
you want her to do dumb things, is she convincingly dumb in all ways?
Dumb dialogue? Dumb haircut? Or the reverse—smart to do smart? Above
all, is she credible?
Give thought to more than your character’s IQ, but to her EQ and
various CIs as well. IQ measures analytical thinking, spatial recognition,
and problem solving. EQ measures emotional intelligence—the ability to
perceive a subtle variety of feelings and emotions in yourself and others.
CIs measure creative intelligence (the power of imagination), intellectual
curiosity (the drive to know), and cultural intelligence (the ability to thrive
in foreign settings).
Starting with your character’s particular mix of intelligences, what are
her habits of thought? Every human being, for example, develops a personal
strategy for relationships. If her method has worked in the past, it doesn’t
easily bend when circumstances demand change. How flexible is your
character’s mind?

ATTITUDES, BELIEFS, VALUES
What are your character’s attitudes? Her likes and dislikes? Loves and
hates? Fears and dreads? Is she optimistic? Pessimistic?
To get answers, interrogate your character. What she thinks about herself
shapes her beliefs, so ask the key psychological question first: “Who are
you?” Does her answer describe her inner nature or name her profession?
How much of an identity has she carved out for herself and how much is
wrapped up in her career?
Ask big questions such as “What do you wish to achieve in the future?
What must you do for yourself? For others? What must you never do to
yourself? To others? How do you judge the essential nature of mankind?
Good? Evil? Some of both?”

EMOTION, MOOD, TEMPERAMENT
Emotion is the side effect of change. As the dominant value in a character’s
life changes charge from positive (e.g., wealth) to negative (e.g., poverty),
the character suffers a negative emotion; as the value charge moves from
negative (e.g., pain) to positive (e.g., pleasure), the character’s mood
changes to delight.13 These experiences, however, are relative to what the
character sees as meaningful in her life—what’s negative, what’s positive.
If you were to put your character in a romantic relationship, and then
have her lover walk out on her, how would change in the key values of
Love/Hate, Happiness/Sadness, and Companionship/Loneliness change her
mood? It may not be what you expect.
Mood is a character trait that tends to draw the same reaction from
different experiences. Sober-minded people, for example, often find fun-
loving hobbies, such as folk dancing and drone flying, boring and annoying.
Children have temperaments; adults have personalities. Temperament is
the by-product of a character’s brain chemistry, whereas personality is the
by-product of socialization. As a child interacts with her world, her
temperament evolves from juvenile to adolescent to adult. But no matter
how mature she may become, her childhood temperament will follow like
her shadow. Is she overall cheery or grouchy? Focused or daydreamy?
Thrill-seeking or reclusive? Her fifth-grade teacher could tell you.
One spectrum of temperament, for example, runs from authoritarianism
to antiauthoritarianism. Does your character back in-groups or defend out-
groups? Authoritarians favor militarism and religious fundamentalism;
antiauthoritarians reject both. Authoritarians look on artists with suspicion;
artists, especially comic artists, ridicule authority. Authoritarians champion
family unity and the self-discipline of being on time for a job they don’t like
very much and then putting in eight productive hours without attitude;
antiauthoritarians often flit from job to job, dragging their children with
them, forever in search of personal fulfillment.

MIRROR, WORLD, AUTHOR
The person a character sees in her makeup mirror today depends in great
part on her past. Her memories, however, tend to be interpretations of what
happened rather than actual events. The moment an event hits a character’s
life, her mind begins to reshape its details, cut much of it, reorder some of
it, and often invent things that never happened. From her reconstruction,
she construes the meaning of the event and how it affects who she is.
Others who witnessed the event will have a second, rather different,
interpretation; you, as author, know the facts and have a third point of view;
the reader/audience adds a fourth.
As you write, alternate from all points of view, until every trait, explicit
and implicit, serves one purpose: characterization.

EXPRESSING CHARACTERIZATION
A characterization can be expressed by what it is, what it is not, and what it
is like. These three general categories offer the writer at least nine
distinctive techniques:
1. Simile: an analogy that compares a characterization to other people
or things. James Thurber, for example, said his boss at the New
Yorker “looked like a dishonest Abe Lincoln.”
2. Metaphor: a direct link that connects a characterization to other
people or things. Like the above, you may draw on figures from
history, mythology, literature, or pop culture: “She’s the Tony
Soprano of self-control.”
3. Correlations: characterization as an extension of personal habits or
possessions. “She found her hair color in the same place she found
her courage… a bottle.”
4. Contrasts: Differences compare generally: “She’s unlike the typical
college grad.”
5. Oppositions: Contradictions compare more sharply: “She’s an anti-
intellectual PhD.”
6. Telling: Sometimes readers may need telling language to picture a
characterization: “She stood six feet, two inches tall,” but onstage or
on-screen, the audience sees the actor and instinctively judges her
height.
7. Showing: actions for the eye: “At six-two, she had to duck into my
car,” or for the ear: “When she got in my car, I heard Crack! as her
skull smacked the door frame, followed by ‘God damn it!’” Both
activate the imagination.
8. Self-assessments: What the character says about herself may or may
not be true, given the gift people have for self-deception, but that
she says it and to whom can be a clue to characterization. “I’m a
people person.”
9. Other-assessments: What one person says about another may or may
not be true, given the axes people have to grind, but that it is said
and by whom can be an important clue to characterization. “She
says she’s a people person, but…”
In “The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber,” Hemingway
introduces Margot Macomber with an inventory of her traits, then seals her
true character with a past choice:
She was an extremely handsome and well-kept woman of the beauty
and social position which had, five years before, commanded five
thousand dollars as the price of endorsing, with photographs, a
beauty product which she had never used.
The phrases “woman of the beauty” and “with photographs” flash the
image of a face you might glimpse while paging a fashion magazine
(explicit trait), while “well-kept” and “social position” give her an aura of
privilege (implicit trait). That she took money to endorse a product she
never used suggests an elastic morality (true character) and the dark events
to come.
YES, BUT WHO IS SHE, REALLY?
The ancient adage “Nothing is what it seems” applies directly and deeply to
character creation. Explicit and implicit traits form surfaces, and these
surfaces hide a truth. Characterization, therefore, expresses only who a
character appears to be and not, in fact, who she is.
When readers or audiences find a characterization credible and
intriguing, their thoughts run something like this: “Interesting, but who is
she really? Is she honest or dishonest? Loving or cruel? Strong or weak?
Generous or selfish? Good or evil? What is her essential, true character?”
The next chapter looks at the inner aspects of true character that live out of
sight and inside the mind.
8

THE INNER CHARACTER
A character’s public and personal personae combine to form his
characterization, the outer facade of who he seems to be. His private and
hidden selves generate his true character, the inner person he is in fact.
When we first encounter a character, we instinctively peer past the surface
of characterization into his depths, seeking an answer to the question we
always ask whenever we meet someone new: Who this person… really? As
the character takes action in the face of conflict, answers arrive.
What a character chooses to do in his lightest moments expresses little
because they cost him little, but at his darkest, when he’s up against
powerful, negative forces, when risks are greatest, his actions reveal the
truth. Who is he? Honest or a liar? Loving or cruel? Generous or selfish?
Strong or weak? Compulsive or cool? Good or evil? Will he help or hinder?
Will he comfort or punish? Will he give his life or take a life? What is his
true character?
The character, of course, never asks these questions of himself. He may
speculate about what other people think of him; he may wonder about what
goes on in his subconscious; but only his author knows all. He created him.
He knows his social and personal personae, plus every tactic of self-
deception the character uses to hide from what he can’t face in himself.
To answer the question “Who is he?” the writer merges his character’s
inner world of conscious thought with his hidden subconscious drives.
Eventually, after much trial, error and improvisation, the two selves fuse
into an irreducible true character.
Let’s look at the motivational forces that drive these complex characters:
MOTIVATION: PUTTING CHARACTER INTO

ACTION
Why do people do the things they do?
—Every psychologist’s dying thought
Motivation is the least understood term in the writer’s vocabulary and a
conundrum for psychologists as well. When researchers ask their subjects
why they do what they do, back come rationalizations, not insights. The
whys of character action run much deeper than alibis, so let’s first trace
their sources.
Do the forces that drive human beings press from behind in the past or
pull from ahead in the future?1 In my view, motives and desires form two
very different energies. Motivations plant their footings in a character’s past
and push from behind, while desires anchor the future and entice a character
toward what’s yet to come.2
Scientific theories about what pushes from the past divide into two
groups: drives rooted in genes versus pressures wrought by social forces.

INSIDE-OUT MOTIVATIONS
Every human being is born with a collection of drives for survival, love,
meaning, and more. These hungers are subconscious and unfocused. Like
winds billowing a ship’s sails, they push from behind and urge a character
forward. A motivation, therefore, is an unsated appetite.
When there’s nothing to eat, man does indeed live by bread alone. But
once fed, his higher internal motivations emerge, and when these are
satisfied, newer, still higher drives arise, and so on in a never-ending hunger
for something greater. A human being is a perpetually wanting animal.
Below are a dozen inner motivations in human nature, ranked from
primal to elevated. Review this checklist to see if, when, and how they
drive your character.
1. Immortality
Death, according to Ernest Becker, is life’s most powerful motivator.3
Knowing we must die inspires the wish to leave behind something of value
to symbolize, like a gravestone, that we were here. Indeed, the dread of
death motivates humanity to build monuments to itself: cities and their
skyscrapers, religions and their sanctuaries, universities and their libraries,
and, most immortally, works of art. The most lasting expression of our Ice
Age ancestors is the paintings they left on the walls of the caves. Ever since
the first burial rites over one hundred thousand years ago, everything
human beings have put on this earth is simply one vast immortality project.
2. Survival
The imperative to survive compels all living things toward what they
perceive as positive. This is why mousetraps work. The human sense of
what’s positive, however, hinges on complex subjectivities. If a human
being views an action as necessary for survival but at the same time
immoral, he will, after some hesitation, ultimately act to survive.
Moral/Immoral, Good/Evil, Right/Wrong, and Survival/Extinction are four
very different sets of values. The first three pairs express the ideal; the last
reflects the real. From a character’s point of view, any action that preserves
his genes—in himself, his family, his tribe—is positive. This is why wars
work.
3. Balance
A tiny scale in the brain weighs the positive versus negative charges around
it, seeking balance. Radical imbalance threatens survival and takes sanity
for a ride, so the mind naturally craves a sovereignty over its existence.
When, for example, a crime tilts Justice/Injustice to the negative, society
demands revenge as a positive charge that restores balance. When the three
brothers in Ray Donovan murder the priest who molested them, all breathe
a sigh of relief. Justice done, their lives finally rest in balance.
4. Pleasure
The craving for pleasure can be irresistible, even if it causes pain in the
future. Victims of abuse, haunted by cruel memories, drown their
nightmares in fathoms of opiate-induced amnesia, knowing full well that
pleasure is temporary and even greater pain lies ahead.
5. Sex
At the turn of the twentieth century, many psychologists based their theories
of human behavior on a single cause. The most famous was Sigmund
Freud’s contention that sexual instincts drive all of life’s objectives.
6. Power
Alfred Adler, originator of the “inferiority complex,” said that desire for
power focuses all strivings. No matter where people perch on the social
pyramid, they constantly survey those above and below, trying to measure
their relative power.
7. Empathy
The hunger to belong creates tribes. With belonging comes the feeling that
if one member suffers, all others ache in empathetic harmony, and somehow
that makes people feel better.4
8. More
Enough is never enough. Avarice progresses in three steps:
A. Greed: the craving for more. Human beings are insatiable and
eternally disappointed. When a character wants more than he can
reasonably expect, he lives in a state of emptiness. “I pay more and more
for greater and greater dissatisfactions,” complained Antonia Wolff to Carl
Jung in Morris West’s novel The World Is Made of Glass.
B. Envy: the tortured feeling that someone has something you don’t.
When a desired thing seems forever out of reach, the urge to gain the thing
reverses into an urge to destroy it. If destructiveness fails, the envious
character wallows in self-pity.
In Shakespeare’s The Tragedy of Othello, Iago envies Othello’s prowess
and prestige, so he destroys him; in Herman Melville’s Billy Budd, Claggart
envies Billy’s beauty and goodness, so he destroys him.
C. Jealousy: Envy escalates into jealousy when a rival enters. Jealousy
reaches fever pitch when it fears that a beloved prefers a rival.
In Amadeus, Salieri seethes with envy of Mozart’s talent. He pleads with
God, “Why Mozart? Why not me?” In a rage, he rips a crucifix off the wall
and burns it in the fireplace. Risking damnation, greedy for esteem, riven by
jealousy, and desperate for the adoration of Vienna’s music patrons, Salieri
destroys his young rival, Mozart.
9. Interest
The difference between “want to” and “have to” is all the difference in the
world. That’s why a repetitious job is a shit job, no matter the paycheck,
and its only cure is curiosity. The mind prefers doing things for their own
sake. It likes tasks that demand skill, jobs done right, problems that need
solutions simply because they’re problems. This is why the creative process
satisfies more than the finished work. Means is its end.
10. Meaning
Victor Frankl believed that a meaningless life is a life of vertigo, dizzily out
of control.5 When people get what they thought they wanted—money,
fame, a C-suite job—they often fall into depression. Achievement ends the
struggle that gave their lives purpose. The obvious solution would be to
search for a new, even deeper purpose, but for many people, one life
purpose per lifetime is all they’ll ever know.
11. Fulfillment
A self-knowing mind senses its untapped humanity, its mental and
emotional potential. The thoughtful character longs to plumb those depths
and fulfill his inner promise.
12. Transcendence
Carl Jung believed that the ultimate motivation is a subconscious longing
for Faustian supremacy, for godlike knowledge beyond the mind’s reach—a
metaphysical perfection.
These internal drives, in various combinations, often unawares and
beyond control, push us toward the future. Like prehistoric man, we are still
kind to friends and fierce to enemies. Progress gives us hospitals instead of
magicians, nuclear missiles instead of bows and arrows. Science has made
us more efficient at either helping people or killing them, but motivation
never changes.6

OUTSIDE-IN MOTIVATIONS
Now let’s take the reverse point of view and look at motivation from the
outside in.
A storyteller studies his setting’s social institutions—economic,
political, religious—to measure their impact on his cast. Although cultural
systems influence trends (consider the vast effect of social media), if a
writer imposes a theory of mass motivation on a specific character, he risks
mistaking conditions for causes. Poverty and wealth, for example, are
conditions, not causes. The physical and psychological pains caused by
poverty may influence a character to become a spiritual leader to relieve
suffering, or they may influence a violent criminal to add to it. Or he may
simply grit his teeth and persevere. Neither poverty nor wealth cause crime
directly. Felons inhabit both extremes in more or less equal percentages.
So for an external social force (e.g., a TV commercial) to motivate a
character to act, it must first strike the character’s senses (he sees an ad),
and then work its way through his subconscious motivators (arousing an
appetite) before he finally chooses an action (buying something). Massive
social forces certainly influence a cast, but they must work their way
through each unique personality, and who knows what will come out the
other side?
Because a character is educated doesn’t mean he’s sophisticated;
because he’s ignorant doesn’t mean he’s crude; because he’s a servant
doesn’t mean he’s servile. The same painful events that destroy one
character may inspire another, while a third sleeps it off.7 When a specific
character acts in a specific scene, the effects of the surrounding culture
become one of a kind and unpredictable.
THE OBJECT OF DESIRE
A classically told story opens with its protagonist’s life in overall balance,
his ups and downs more or less routine. But then something happens: An
inciting incident caused either by random chance or someone’s decision
throws the protagonist’s life radically out of balance.
An inciting incident could pivot a protagonist’s life sharply to the
positive (Romeo falls for Juliet) or darkly to the negative (Hamlet discovers
his father’s murder). In either case, when life goes out of kilter, a
subconscious desire for a stable life stirs into consciousness. This drive for
equilibrium becomes a character’s super-objective.
Sensing that life has swung out of control, the protagonist imagines a
solution in the form of a life change that’s expressed either situationally
(committed love) or physically (dead villain). That which would bring
about a positive change we call the object of desire. The protagonist feels
that if he could secure this, his life would swing back on an even keel. Now
that he knows what he wants, he’s able to act. His super-objective to restore
life’s balance and his pursuit of his object of desire points him toward his
story’s final crisis and climax.
In every story, the protagonist’s super-objective directs his action toward
a unique object of desire. The Action Genre, for example, often aims at
something you could hold in your hands. In Jaws, a dead shark. The
Education Plot’s object of desire is usually something you could hold in
your mind. In Ralph Ellison’s novel Invisible Man, the protagonist searches
for an identity, an answer to the question “Who am I?”
Therefore, a motivation (e.g., the lust for power) is an unfocused
subconscious latency until an inciting incident spurs it to life and focuses it
on a desire. By causing the need for a balanced future, the inciting incident
puts motivation into action and forms the object of desire that pulls the
protagonist through his story-long trek.
Examples:
In tragic plots, such as The Tragedy of Romeo and Juliet, Romeo’s
aroused libido (motivation #5) fixates on a stimulus (the exquisite Juliet)
that inspires action (climbing a balcony) in pursuit of the protagonist’s
ultimate object of desire (Juliet-as-wife).
In Action Plots, such as Vikings, a young warrior tastes victory for the
first time and this inciting incident unites motivations #7 and #8, arousing
his appetite to rule. The throne, his glittering object of desire, draws him
toward the future.
In Degeneration Plots, such as A Confederacy of Dunces by John
Kennedy Toole, The Tin Drum by Gunter Grass, Perfume by Patrick
Suskind, and The Beauty Queen of Leenane by Martin McDonagh,
protagonists suffer psychic traumas that ignite subconscious motivations #1,
#2, and #3. Their objects of desire call for bizarre, even murderous, deeds
until they end either suicidal or insane, or both.
TRUE CHARACTER THROUGH CHOICES
How does a writer express a character’s inner nature?
Not by characterization. In fact, the more fascinating a character’s outer
behavior, the more the reader/audience wants to discover his true inner
counterpoints: Jack seems tough, but where’s his soft spot?
Not by what others say about him. What one character believes about
another may or may not be true, but what’s said and by whom may set up
future revelations.
Not by what a character says about himself. Audiences and readers
listen to a character’s confessions or braggings with high skepticism. They
know that people are as self-deceived as self-aware.
Instead, they look for events to build pressure and expose true character
in the only way they trust: choices. A human being is the choices he makes
over a lifetime.
From amoebas to apes, all earthly critters obey nature’s First Law:
Choose Life. Nature compels every living thing to preserve its genes by
acting toward the positive as it sees the positive. What is a violent death to a
gazelle is lunch to a lion.
Nature’s bias of life over death channels all human choice toward the
positive (anything that enhances life) and away from the negative (anything
that hints of death). As Socrates taught, no one willingly does what he
believes to be wrong; instead, everyone acts toward a perceived positive. In
such matters, subjectivity is all. When survival demands it, the mind simply
redefines immorality into virtue.8
If the reader/audience understands a character’s point of view and sees
him confront a simple positive/negative choice (happiness/misery,
right/wrong), they know in advance (probably before the character himself
knows) how he will choose. He will reject the negative and choose what he
perceives is the positive. The core self always does. It’s the First Law.
Therefore, clear choices between negative and positive charges of the same
thing (poverty versus wealth, ignorance versus wisdom, ugliness versus
beauty) are trivial.
TRUE CHARACTER THROUGH DILEMMA
The only dramatically compelling and character-revealing decision is a
choice between two things of more or less equal value. These dilemmas
come in two varieties: positive and negative.
A positive dilemma confronts a character with two equally desirable but
irreconcilable possibilities. He wants both but circumstances force him to
choose only one. For example, in the classic dilemma of Romantic Comedy,
a woman finds herself caught between a man who is loving, devoted, and
generous but boring versus another who is passionate, brilliant, and
fascinating but certain to break her heart.
A negative dilemma confronts a character with two equally undesirable
possibilities. He wants neither, but circumstances force him to choose one
of two evils. For example, the classic marriage drama: If a woman doesn’t
marry the man her family favors, they will disown her, but if she does
marry her family’s pick, she will suffer a lifetime of boredom.
Clear choices are easily made and without jeopardy, but dilemma puts a
character under pressure and at risk. A clear choice reveals little or nothing
the reader/audience doesn’t already know; a decision in dilemma sends
alternative choices running through a character’s imagination. As he
struggles to make his choice, the push and pull of possibilities propels the
reader’s/audience’s curiosity toward the story’s climax: What will he finally
do?
Either way he chooses, his action under pressure will reveal his true
character.
Three examples: In No Country for Old Men, the Coen brothers’ film
adaptation of Cormac McCarthy’s novel, Llewelyn Moss risks his life for
$2.4 million in stolen drug money. He chooses the money and pays for it
with the lives of both himself and his wife. In Sweat, a play by Lynn
Nottage, Cynthia must choose between going on strike with her lifelong
working-class pals versus her new job in low-level management. She
chooses her job and sacrifices her friendships. In Less, a novel by Andrew
Sean Greer, Arthur Less faces this dilemma: struggling for full creative
achievement and the painful sacrifices that demands versus accepting less
and gaining the pleasures of an easier life. He chooses the latter.

TRUE CHARACTER THROUGH

ANTAGONISM
When a character takes action in a high-risk dilemma, he inevitably
provokes forces of antagonism in his world. To overcome these obstacles,
he must continuously improvise anew. His choices are sometimes
instinctive, sometimes deliberate, but always under pressure: He stands to
lose in order to gain. The greater this risk-filled pressure, the deeper and
truer his choice to who, at heart, he is.
As further events impact his life, his evolving nature chooses to conform
or rebel, accept or reject his previous beliefs and values. No deeply felt
experience is neutral; no choice is impartial; no action is impersonal. Thus,
by choice and action he either civilizes or decivilizes himself, he either
grows as a human being or shrivels.
Degrees of pressure, therefore, measure the depth and quality of true
character. How, for example, do we know for certain whether a character is
honest or dishonest? When nothing is at risk, pressure is light and therefore
telling the truth painless. But when everything, even life itself, is at stake,
when consequences stretch to the limits of human endurance, then
excruciating pressure builds around the choice to tell the truth or lie.
Whichever way the character acts, his choice delivers a profound insight
into his core self.
Once a character chooses a tactic, he hands the doing of the deed to his
agent self, who then takes on one of his personal or social personae. When
not directing the show, the core self spends the day like a documentary film
crew, watching, listening, and recording every interesting thing his outer
selves do. Afterward, the core self usually wishes he had done things a bit
better.
When creating a complex character, imagine his values along spectra
that run from extreme positives (e.g., love, courage, hope) to extreme
negatives (e.g., hate, cowardice, despair). For example, if his life is in
danger, where does he stand on the courage/cowardice spectrum? Complex
characters feel some of both. If his life has lost meaning, how does he see
his future along the hope/despair spectrum? If he’s in an intimate
relationship, is he capable of love? Where along the love/hate spectrum
would you place him?
Consider the value of honesty/dishonesty. A character may appear
truthful, others may say he is, he may insist he is, but how will a
reader/audience know for certain whether he’s an honest man, a liar, or
morally flexible? If he has nothing to lose and chooses to tell the truth, his
honesty seems trivial because it’s risk free. But if he’s under grave threat
and he chooses to tell the truth when a lie would save his life, his depth of
honesty seems profound. If, on the other hand, the character is a priest who,
under threat, refuses to deny his faith, his honesty may seem less impressive
because his sacred vows make his choice less free.
The interplay between choice and self gives the writer three grand
principles to guide the work:
1. When a character at risk and under pressure pursues desire, his
choices of action express his true character.
2. The greater the risk and pressure, the deeper and truer the choice.
3. The freer the choice, the even deeper and truer the choice to a
character’s identity.
Consider four tragic roles: Othello, Lear, Macbeth, and Hamlet. Brilliant
characters all, but Hamlet is the most complex. Why? Choices. Othello’s
jealousy blinds him, Lear’s daughters make his decisions for him, and the
witches’ prophecies funnel Macbeth to his destiny. Hamlet’s choices are
freer and more numerous. He might kill himself or not, revenge himself or
not, love Ophelia or not, kill Polonius or not, find life meaningless or
meaningful, stay sane or go crazy… all because of his unlimited freedom to
choose.
Therefore, choice and character development relate this way: If a
character makes only a few risk-free choices around a single value, he stays
shallow and monodimensional. But if the character makes numerous risk-
taking choices in the face of various values, he becomes complex and thus
involves the reader/audience deeply in his inner life.
For example: In the opening episodes of Succession, the autocratic
Logan Roy (Brian Cox) dominates his coke-abusing son, Kendall (Jeremy
Strong), giving him few if any choices. Kendall’s reactions make him seem
weak, shallow, petty. But once he breaks free from his father and follows
his own dangerous choices, his character gains heft and complexity, and
wins our empathy.
TRUE CHARACTER AND EMOTION
When a character takes an action and his world reacts with antagonism, the
charge of value at stake in the scene undergoes change. If a value charge
moves from negative to positive, the character experiences an overall
positive emotion. And the reverse: If a value’s charge swings from positive
to negative, his experience turns overall negative. Emotion, as noted in
Chapter Seven, is the side effect of change.
A stimulus, such as good or bad news, causes glands to open and flood
the bloodstream with a chemical cocktail that instills a particular emotion.
A beautiful sight floods the brain with dopamine and serotonin, triggering a
rush of pleasure; a grotesque image sends chemicals that affect the
amygdala and insula cortex, causing woozy pangs of disgust. Soon,
however, the limbic system produces counter chemicals to quiet and dispel
emotions, returning the mind and body to a state of equilibrium. The intense
experiences of pleasure and pain peak, then recede.
Pleasure and pain can be subdivided into various tones or qualities,
although there’s no scientific agreement on how many. Traditional
psychology names just six: joy, fear, anger, sadness, disgust, and surprise.
(Notice that the only clearly positive emotion here is joy.) To turn these
states into tools for the writer, I’ve expanded the list by pairing them into
six oppositions that give the writer a pallet of twelve emotions: Love/Hate,
Amity/Anger, Joy/Grief, Surprise/Shock, Pleasure/Disgust, Courage/Fear.
The words emotion and feeling are often used interchangeably, but in my
thinking, they differ greatly by the quality of their impact. Emotion hits
with an intense suddenness, peaks in power, then in time fades away. A
feeling comes over you more slowly, sits in the background of experience
and lasts for long periods of time. Joy is an emotion; happiness is a feeling;
grief is an emotion; sadness is a feeling.
You know how it goes. One morning you wake up feeling great and
spend the whole day behind a smile. No particular reason for this; you’re
just at the optimistic pitch of your inner teeter-totter. Or you spend a day
with a cloud over your head, again for no good reason; you’ve just hit your
cynical bottom.
Feelings—pride of achievement versus shame of failure, hope for a
bright future versus a premonition of disaster, a light heart versus a grumpy
soul, trust of a loved one versus suspicions of infidelity—often color a
personality long after the original stimulus is forgotten, shaping a role’s
characterization over a lifetime.
From turning point to turning point, change in the dynamic charge of a
life value puts a character through one of the twelve emotions listed above.
In a Romantic Comedy, for example, falling in love could fill a grieving
character with joy, while losing love could inflict a joyful character with
grief.
But when writing a scene, knowing the underlying emotion is only a

starting point. An emotion in its pure state strikes a character like a blunt
instrument. In life, the twelve prime passions range across an infinite
variety of qualities and subtle intensities. What, therefore, determines which
particular shade of emotion a character expresses in any particular scene?
Answer: characterization. The mood, feeling, tone, and texture that
emanates from a distinctive personality shapes a primal emotion into a
genuinely original performance. Joy in one character might be expressed
with a high-stepping song and dance routine, while another only smiles
around the edges of his eyes.
TRUE CHARACTER AND REACTIONS
Reality limits the number of basic actions a human being can take. A person
could choose to educate himself or live in ignorance, marry or live alone,
work or laze, eat smart or pig out, face life or hide from it, and so on down
a rather short list. On the other hand, the variety of moment-to-moment
reactions a person may have to any action seems infinite.
When a character struggles to educate himself, for instance, his possible
reactions to the trials of learning are as different and as many as they are for
all students in all schools everywhere. The same is true of romance, work,
health, and every other major aspect of life. The choices a character makes
when negative forces block his path express his core identity, but the ways
he reacts make him one of a kind.
In Casablanca, Rick Blaine (Humphrey Bogart) asks Victor Lazlo (Paul
Henreid) why he keeps risking his life for the anti-Fascist cause:
LAZLO: We might as well question why we breathe. We stop
breathing, we’ll die. We stop fighting our enemies, the world will
die.
RICK: What of it? Then it’ll be out of its misery.
Lazlo’s elegant declaration is an answer any idealist might give, but
Rick’s reaction, his belief that the death of civilization would be an act of
mercy, is character-specific. Rick’s choices, unique to him alone, set him
apart from every version of the American antihero before and since.
Let this principle guide your character work: Choices of action under
pressure express true character, but detailed, never-seen-before reactions
make a characterization distinctive and intriguing.
TRUE CHARACTER AND FREE WILL
A writer’s imagination is the sole source for every decision a character
makes and every action he takes; a character’s choices are in fact his
author’s choices. But from the point of view of audiences and readers, the
opposite seems true. In a fictional world, independent characters lead
independent lives, acting of their own free will. So in both realms, the as is
and the as if, how free is human choice?
The Matrix explores this question as its protagonist, Neo (Keanu
Reeves), discovers that what he experiences as reality is in fact an induced
delusion known as the Matrix. This false world was created by an all-
powerful AI to deceive enslaved human beings into thinking they are free
while the AI uses their bodies as biological batteries to run its machines.
Neo fights to gain the willpower he needs to defeat the AI’s agents and
break free from the Matrix.
The free will / determinism debate is eons old, but with the recent rise of
neuroscience and quantum theory, ancient arguments have found new
intensity. One side insists that free will is a delusion and that all choice is
caused by forces outside human control;9 others believe the will operates
free of any cause, external or internal.10 This dispute has influenced writers
of both speculative and realistic fiction. The side you favor shapes the
stories you tell and the casts that populate them.
Against Free Will
Free will deniers argue that for the will to be free, choice must be uncaused.
An uncaused decision has no connection to anything in the past and is,
therefore, utterly spontaneous. But, of course, as we know, in the physical
universe, all actions, human or cosmic, are caused. Even the Big Bang had
its cause (albeit as yet unknown). Denier logic argues that because an
uncaused cause is a non sequitur, the human choice cannot be free.
For Free Will
In Fawlty Towers, Basil’s car breaks down. After making dire threats to it,
he counts to three, gives his car one last chance, then shouts:
BASIL: I’ve warned you! I’ve laid it on the line to you time and time
again! Right! I’m going to give you a damn good thrashing!
He rips a branch from a nearby tree and beats the paint off the fenders.
Basil blames the car; we blame Basil.
Suppose, however, that like the car, Basil had no choice. Suppose the
fault is a schizophrenic flaw in his brain chemistry? Or a defect in his
upbringing? If so, do we blame his parents? But if his parents have no free
will, how can we condemn them? We don’t. Fault finding chases blame
after blame into an infinite regress, so we choose to believe that Basil
abused his car of his own free will.
Believing we don’t have free will is not the same as believing we don’t
make choices.11 No matter how our genes and personal history combine to
influence our mind, our choices seem real. We sense that deep inside us our
neural processes select actions based on a sense of probable consequences,
what we think will happen when we take an action. We merge our sum total
of living experience with an immediate situation, imagine an outcome, then
make a choice. Without belief in choice, we could not hold ourselves
responsible for anything we did. Law would evaporate, personal binds
unravel, and The Purge would become a 24/365 reality.
If we have no free will, how can we change, cut, add, merge, or rework
ourselves into someone we’ve never been before? If the human will is not
free, at least to some degree, how are creativity and change possible? If all
choice is determined by the past, how does anything new ever find its way
into the world? If free will didn’t exist, nothing unnecessary would exist,
yet history is littered with things human beings made just for the fun of it.
Like a child making up a game out of things he finds around the house, an
artist creates by inventing something that never existed out of what already
exists. Childhood play is the essence of free choice, and mature art is its
fullest expression.12
As we noted earlier, any story you create argues both for and against
free will. When a story begins and we look into its unknown future,
virtually everything and anything seems possible. But at climax, now that
we know the protagonist’s psychology in depth, and now that we see the
full array of social, personal, and physical forces that surrounded him, we
realize that the choices he made were the only choices he could and would
have made; the reactions he got from his world were the only reactions his
world could and would have given him. The path he took was the only path
he could have taken. Character choices seem free and unpredictable when
seen from the inciting incident and looking toward the story’s climax, but
inevitable and fated when looking back from the climax to the inciting
incident. Free will in one direction; retroactive determinism in the other.
Our sense of free will may be a delusion that arises out of ignorance of
its causes, but if so, then it’s our delusion and we have no choice but to
embrace it. When your characters make choices, they face four possible
pathways to a decision, two beyond their control and two within their free
will choices:
1. Circumstances push a character’s life one way or another and
determine the choice, for better or worse, whether he likes it or not.
2. The subconscious self makes choices the core self never realizes or
rationalizes away.
3. The character quickly considers what to do. As choices come to
mind, one takes hold, and he makes an instinctive decision.
4. The character slowly considers his choices, makes lists of pros and
cons, followed by a concatenation of all possible consequences and
a judicious weighing of their effects. He finally makes his choice.
This rational mode usually precedes a character’s greatest mistakes
in life.
Ultimately, as author, all choices are yours.
9

THE DIMENSIONAL CHARACTER
A UNITY OF OPPOSITES
To review: A role’s characterization conceals her true character, and
together they float atop her subconscious, that ocean of drives and desires,
unthinking habits and sea tides of temperament. These three aspects—outer,
inner, hidden—gather to complete a character, but what keeps them from
flying apart? What pulls surface personae, inner selves, and subconscious
drives together into one unified character?
Answer: the power of contradiction.
In the fifth century BCE, the philosopher Heraclitus argued that reality
holds itself together through a system of contradictions: “Cold things warm
up, the hot cool off; wet becomes dry, dry becomes wet.” Hot/cold merge to
create temperature, dry/wet unite into humidity, birth/death forge life. Thus
runs the dynamic of all physical existence, creating A Unity of Opposites.
This principle applies to humankind as well. The moment a person is
born, she begins to die. At every point in her life, she is evolved yet
evolving, dreaming while awake, awake while dreaming. No matter her
age, she’s both young and old—younger than anyone older, older than
anyone younger. No matter her sexual orientation, she’s both female and
male.
Within the harmony of every well-designed role, a set of living
contradictions intersect. The unity of opposites, therefore, is the founding
principle of character complexity. Stories populated by complex characters
preserve, in an aesthetically purified form, the essential contradictions that
unite ugliness with beauty, tyranny with freedom, good with evil, truth with
lie, and the like.

CHARACTER DIMENSION
Human nature’s emotional instrument was strung in a violent past, hundreds
of thousands of years before Socrates, Buddha, or Jesus could retune it.
Virtues such as honesty, generosity, and courage constantly revert to
treachery, selfishness, and cowardice in the same society, the same person.
As a result, paradox rules humanity: People love their families yet hate their
families, save time yet waste time, seek the truth yet deny the obvious, prize
nature yet pollute nature, hunger for peace yet rush to war. Complex
characters first display a specific self, then change into its opposite and then
back again.
These dynamics have a pattern. They swing back and forth from pole to
pole depending on the relationships a character has with other characters
and within herself—some positive, some negative. The in-vogue client of a
professional dominant is a high-powered but highly stressed executive who
distains those she subordinates and deifies those who subordinate her. To
balance the pleasures of power with the pangs of humiliation, she submits
to the whip. Psychologists coined sadomasochist as the perfect oxymoron to
name this contradiction in a Dior suit.
When a character’s inner and outer natures fuse into a single function,
the role congeals into a type: Nurse, Cop, Teacher, Superhero, Villain,
Sidekick, and the like. But when contradictions underpin a role, they
activate a more complete, complex, and fascinating character. These
oppositions form Dimensions.
Dimensional characters arouse our curiosity by making us wonder how
two sides of a contradiction can live within one person. That, in turn, makes
them unpredictable and all the more fascinating. From moment to moment,
who knows which side will show up?
COMPLEXITY IN SIX DIMENSIONS
Dimensions span between aspects of a role’s outer characterization,
between various inner selves and between facets of the hidden self. What’s
more, these three levels often contradict one another. As a result, a complex
character may contain six distinct kinds of dimensions.
1. A Contradiction Between Two Aspects of Characterization
Picture a woman who spends an hour each morning getting her makeup just
right but doesn’t bother to brush her teeth. Suppose this woman abuses her
partner but coddles her children; kisses up to her boss but tyrannizes her
staff. These three dimensions fuse qualities of characterization—her
physical, personal, and social selves—into intriguing behaviors, giving the
reader/audience insight into what’s important and unimportant to her.
At the level of characterization, characters are often aware of their traits,
although they rarely perceive them as contradictory. Instead, they
rationalize them as necessary. These behaviors are also visible to the rest of
the cast who think whatever they choose to think about them.
2. A Contradiction Between Characterization and True Character
Envision an elderly woman dozing in a wheelchair. As she awakes, she
gazes at the men in her retirement home and suddenly a glint flashes in her
eye, lit by her ever-young dream of romantic love.
3. A Contradiction Between Characterization and Subconscious Desire
Imagine a hyperactive woman who never stops doing things, and yet her
hidden self always stays deeply calm. This serene self comes out only when
she faces danger. Under threat, she goes still, strong and focused.
To discover a character’s subconscious, the key, once again, is
contradiction. When a character says one thing and does another, what are
the possibilities? One, she’s lying. She knows what she really wants but
outwardly pretends to want the opposite. Or two, she’s honest. She really
believes what she says, really wants what she wants, but when she tries to
get it, something undercuts her efforts. She doesn’t know why, but every
once in a while, she turns a rather dark face to the world. A contradictory
force lives in her subconscious.
4. A Contradiction Between Two Conscious Desires
The adulterer’s dilemma: a woman caught between devotion to her husband
and passion for her lover.
At the level of true character, a conscious, self-aware mind analyzes her
inner contradiction, worries about it, and struggles to make a choice. If she
talks about her dilemma with others, it becomes an aspect of
characterization. If she keeps a subtextural conflict to herself, the
reader/audience can perceive it only by implication. Once she makes a
choice of action, however, the reader/audience reads her mind clearly and
senses her inner dimension.
To symbolize dimensions between two conscious desires, playwrights
such as Samuel Beckett (Waiting for Godot), Jean Genet (The Maids), and
Suzan-Lori Parks (Topdog/Underdog) resort to splitting the mind in two and
symbolizing an inner contradiction as a pair of bickering characters.
5. A Contradiction Between a Conscious Desire and a Subconscious
Desire
The lover’s dilemma: fervent passion for a fiancée versus fear of
commitment.
To symbolize dimensions of this fifth type, novels such as Robert Louis
Stevenson’s The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde and two novels
titled The Double, one by Fyodor Dostoevsky and the other by Jose
Saramago, cast conscious/subconscious contradiction as a duet of characters
with contradictory drives (one toward good, the other toward evil) that
mirror each other.
In Breaking Bad, showrunner Vince Gilligan gives his protagonist,
Walter White, a secret second self known as Heisenberg. This doppelgänger
comes vividly to the surface in Season 5, Episode 14: Jack, leader of a Nazi
biker gang, has Walter’s brother-in-law, Hank, at his mercy. As Jack raises
his gun, Walt pleads for Hank’s life. While he’s begging, he is Walter, a
man capable of conscious caring.
But immediately after Nazi Jack murders Hank, Walt betrays Jesse, his
dearest friend and partner. In that act, Heisenberg, the manifestation of
Walter’s savage subconscious, takes charge.
6. A Contradiction Between Two Subconscious Motivations
The family dilemma: the need to sacrifice your desires for the people you
love versus the need to sacrifice other people to fulfill your personal
ambitions.
Subconscious dimensions live below the level of awareness, unthought,
and unexpressed. Once again, the reader/audience can perceive an inner
contradiction only through the character’s choices of action under pressure.
Children, for example, often harbor contradictory subconscious attitudes
toward their parents: fear and awe, love and hate. In The Tragedy of
Hamlet, Shakespeare projected a son’s contradictory feelings onto two
characters: the noble father versus the dastardly uncle. The Lion King
(Hamlet with a happy ending) repeated this duality onstage and on-screen.
The fairy godmother versus wicked stepmother in “Cinderella” does the
same for daughters.
In Persona, Ingmar Bergman expressed the split soul by merging a nurse
and patient into one woman, then separated them back into two, then one
again, two again…
In Black Swan, Nina Sayers (Natalie Portman), a ballet dancer
rehearsing Tchaikovsky’s Swan Lake, suffers a conflict between split selves.
Because the ballet calls for the same dancer to perform two opposed
protagonists, White Swan and Black Swan, the film uses this setup to
dramatize her dual self.
The White Swan role calls for symmetry, grace, cool antisexuality, and,
above all, precise skills that define Nina’s longing for poised perfection.
The Black Swan demands the opposite talents: creativity, spontaneity,
sexual abandon—powerful, animalistic energies alive within Nina that she
fiercely suppresses. The war between her uptight White Swan and her
voluptuous but stifled Black Swan surfaces in paranoid hallucinations. At
the climax, Nina’s two selves finally join forces in a glorious, life-fulfilling
performance, then consume each other as she dies, whispering, “It was
perfect.”
For a real-life example of the unity of opposites, consider the novelist,
playwright, screenwriter, and multidimensional celebrity Graham Greene.
Greene was self-hating versus self-glorifying, meticulously disciplined
versus self-destructive, deliriously romantic versus bitterly cynical, devout
Catholic versus lifelong adulterer, Nobel Prize–nominated novelist versus
pulp hack, strict theologian versus moral relativist, salon communist versus
closet monarchist, anti-imperialist crusader versus postcolonial parasite,
civilized to a fault versus drugged to distraction. Greene was an exceptional
artist but no exception to human nature.1
To unify characters over time, dimensions must be consistent. If a man
rescues a kitten up a tree once, that’s not a dimension; it’s a gratuitous
kindness to gain cheap sympathy from the reader/audience. If a woman
rescues cats throughout a story but then suddenly kicks a dog, that’s not a
dimension, either; it’s a snit.
Dimensions must be variable. A character who loves cats but hates dogs
and so rescues kittens but abandons puppies wages war within herself. A
reader/audience would be amused and curious to discover the roots of this
neurotic contradiction, so long as the pattern doesn’t become repetitious. A
dimension needs a certain unpredictability and progression—not the same
cat and same dog rescued and abandoned in the same backyard.
What’s more, to keep its tension, a dimension must seem unresolvable:
an atheist who argues that nothing is permanent but subconsciously yearns
for the eternal; a neuroscientist who chooses of her own free will to believe
that free will is an illusion; a Las Vegas oddsmaker who secretly delights in
unpredictable outcomes.

THE DEFINING DIMENSION
A protagonist may house many more than three dimensions, while first
circle supporting roles generally feature only one or two, but no matter how
many dimensions elaborate a role, they do not have equal weight and focus.
One tends to stand in the foreground, defining a character’s essential spirit,
while the others complete the portrait.
Of the nine dimensions I ascribed to Graham Greene, which one is so
crucial to his identity that if it were removed, he would vanish with it? I
would suggest Artist/Hack. The other eight dimensions could inhabit
someone else, but the creative battle Greene waged within himself was his
alone. It defined him.
To repeat for clarity: A dimension is a consistent contradiction within or
between the planes of a character’s nature. In a complex, multidimensional
character, one of these steps forward to define her unique identity.

CASE STUDY: ODYSSEUS
In a recent survey of “The 100 Stories that Shaped the World,” international
experts ranked the Odyssey, Homer’s three-thousand-year-old epic, number
one, with his Iliad close behind.2 As Homer’s human characters strive
against vindictive, hypersexed gods and demonic, nightmarish monsters,
many scenes in both stories seem like fever dreams, and yet, for all their
lust and gore, the Iliad and Odyssey are the foundational stories of
European culture, and their pivotal character, Odysseus, King of Ithaca, is
history’s first multidimensional character.
The battered hero of these tales spends ten years at war against the city
of Troy (Iliad), then another decade struggling to sail home (Odyssey).
Odysseus duels enemy warriors, wrathful gods, covetous goddesses, and
bloodthirsty beasts, ultimately prevailing through grit, luck, and ingenious
improvisations.
The Iliad gives Odysseus his first two dimensions—Pragmatic/Idealistic
and Obedient/Defiant. But after the Odyssey’s opening line introduces him
as “a complicated man,” he gains six more: Truthful/Deceitful,
Brilliant/Blundering, Protecting/Jeopardizing, Honorable/Thieving,
Cool/Raging, and Faithful/Unfaithful.3
Pragmatic/Idealistic
Odysseus is a battlefield pragmatist. To him, idealistic codes of honor end
when war begins. In ancient heroic tradition, for example, poison was an
ignoble, deceitful weapon no true champion would use. Even so, Odysseus
coats his arrowheads with arsenic.
When a captured Trojan spy begs Odysseus for mercy, he manipulates
the man into thinking he’ll spare his life in exchange for a military secret.
But the moment the spy reveals what he knows, he’s beheaded. Then using
the spy’s information, Odysseus and his comrade slaughter an enemy force
in their sleep.
In the tenth year of the war, the Trojans back the Greek army against the
sea. Facing massacre, the Greek foot soldiers rise up against their
incompetent leaders. In the face of mutiny and certain defeat, a pragmatist
might hoist sail for home, but Odysseus stays true to the ideals of victory.
Using his powerfully persuasive voice, he reverses the revolt with a fiery
prophecy that turns mutineers into warriors and sends them roaring back
into the teeth of battle.
Obedient/Defiant
Odysseus dutifully obeys his commanding general, King Agamemnon, but
when he feels that the king’s tactics are ruinous, he defies his leader, telling
him, “Your words are wind and have no meaning.”
Truthful/Deceitful
As an advisor to Agamemnon’s war council, Odysseus always speaks with
truthfulness, insight, and wisdom. No comrade ever doubts his word. But
once he sets sail for home, he lies from one end of the Mediterranean to the
other.
Again and again, his gift for storytelling charms his way out of trouble.
He tricks people by disguising himself as an old man or a beggar or an
immigrant from Crete, an island famous for its liars. Odysseus even tries to
con his sacred protectress, the goddess Athena, but she sees through him
and scolds him with: “You perverse man, how you love your artful,
deceitful words.”
Brilliant/Blundering
When the war with Troy seems all but lost, Odysseus wins victory for the
Greeks by improvising history’s most brilliant military tactic—the Wooden
Horse. On the voyage home, however, Odysseus, greedy for loot, sneaks
into the cave of Polyphemus, the cannibalistic cyclops. The giant traps
Odysseus inside and devours half of his crew.
That night Odysseus lulls Polyphemus into a drunken stupor, then drives
a stake into his one and only eye. Once safely back on ship, however,
Odysseus unleashes yet another arrogant impulse. He taunts the now-blind
Polyphemus, enraging not only the giant but the giant’s father, Poseidon,
Lord of the Seas. The furious sea god batters Odysseus’s ship with massive
storms and blows him wildly off course.
Protecting/Jeopardizing
Odysseus protected his warriors throughout the Trojan War, making certain
they were well fed and well doctored. But while sailing home, his men
discover a tribe addicted to the lotus plant—a narcotic that erases painful
memories. These war-damaged, PTSD-suffering veterans, longing to forget,
rush to devour the drug. To save his men from themselves, Odysseus drags
them back to the ships.
Later, however, as Odysseus’s fleet sails toward a foreign shore, he
again senses danger, but this time he jeopardizes his men’s lives by
anchoring their ships in the open, while concealing his behind rocks.
Suddenly, gargantuan cannibals attack and capsize the ships, spearing and
eating his men as if they were fish. Only Odysseus and his crew escape.
Honorable/Thieving
Throughout the war, Odysseus fought courageously, dividing spoils
honorably and treating his fellow warriors with respect. But on the voyage
home, he turns pirate, plundering peaceful towns, killing their defenders,
and taking women as slaves.
Cool/Raging
In war and at sea, in the face of armies and monsters, Odysseus always
keeps his cool, solving problems with calm, clear, balanced decisions.
Meanwhile, back in Ithaca, a group of boisterous young men known as
the Suitors invade his palace and revel in his wealth. For ten years, each of
them tries repeatedly to seduce Odysseus’s wife, Penelope. Once home,
Odysseus, roiled with Achilles-like rage, takes revenge. He slaughters all
108 suitors, then all the servants who served the suitors and the female
slaves who slept with them.
Faithful/Unfaithful
Away from home, Odysseus is repeatedly adulterous, bedding nymphs such
as Circe. But when Calypso, a goddess of divine beauty, offers Odysseus an
eternity of pleasure, he stays faithful to his beloved Penelope.
Odysseus’s Eight Dimensions
What makes Odysseus an enduring creation is the dark side of his
dimensions. Any clichéd hero can act out positive charges such as bravery,
intelligence, and calm under pressure, but it’s his impulsive, hard-hearted,
raging, thieving, self-serving, and deceitful traits that expand Odysseus’s
character, giving him a multidimensional nature, the power of
unpredictability, and a depth of character that makes his surprising choices
satisfyingly creditable.
Of his eight dynamic contradictions, the one that serves as his defining
dimension is his dazzling brilliance versus his erratic impulses. Odysseus,
after all, devised the Trojan Horse ploy that ended a decade of war, but then
he blundered his way into Polyphemus’s cave. His impulsive adventures
risk his life repeatedly, but his hypnotic storytelling saves it just as often.
He’s both brilliant and foolish. There’s no one quite like him in the three
thousand years of fiction that followed Homer.
Odysseus remains perpetually modern—conflicted yet willful, death
damaged yet life embracing. He set the stage for psychologically and
morally complex characters of future generations: Anonymous’s Beowulf,
Shakespeare’s Macbeth, Stendhal’s Julien Sorel, F. Scott Fitzgerald’s Jay
Gatsby, Raymond Chandler’s Philip Marlowe, Vladimir Nabokov’s
Humbert Humbert, Mario Puzo’s Michael Corleone, Philip Roth’s
Alexander Portnoy, Hilary Mantel’s Thomas Cromwell.
CASE STUDY: TONY SOPRANO
How dimensional can a character become? Consider David Chase’s
creation, the New Jersey mafia don, Tony Soprano. The Sopranos ran for
eighty-six episodes, and Tony was the only character to appear in every
episode.
The Twelve Dimensions of Tony Soprano
To portray a man’s life enmeshed in this huge number of interconnected
relationships, dramatized over eighty-six hours, with dozens of backstory
events waiting for revelation, reaching back decades to Tony’s infancy—all
this time and content called for one of the most complex characters ever
conceived for any storytelling medium.
Moving counterclockwise:
#1. Guilt-ridden/Sociopath. A sociopath is someone without a
conscience, an antisocial, self-centered personality who’s incapable of
feeling shame or remorse. At times, Tony is clearly a sociopath.
Except at other times, Tony is as guilt-ridden as Macbeth. His
remorseful heart pursues him relentlessly, nagging and tormenting him into
panic attacks.
This Macbeth-like core contradiction of outer cruelty versus inner
conscience makes Tony Soprano one of the most fascinating characters ever
written for page, stage, or screen.
When it’s time to kill, Tony acts without hesitation. Nothing can restrain
his raging impulses. Over the years he commits eight murders on-screen,
and who can count how many hits he orders or commits off-screen? He is a
sociopath, no doubt, but a genuinely sociopathic personality would never
join any collective organization, even the mafia.
Professional assassins, like Javier Bardem’s Anton Chigurh and Woody
Harrelson’s Carson Wells from No Country for Old Men, would happily fill
contracts to kill for the mafia, but they rarely join it. The mafia is an illegal
society within our legal society, but it demands all those qualities of good
citizenship conventional society demands: loyalty, honesty, hard work, a
stable family life, sobriety, obedience to the tribe’s laws, respectful manners
and etiquette, and, most important, submission to the authorities who stand
above you in the hierarchy of power.
If you belong to this society, breaking its commandments inflicts the
pain of guilt as you accuse and belittle yourself with that nagging voice of
self-disgust known as a conscience.
If you have a conscience, that is, and Tony certainly does. His
conscience works overtime to fill his dreams with horrifying images and
drive him to a psychiatrist for help. This profound dimension of sociopathic
callousness contradicted by guilty self-punishment is the axle of Tony’s
inner nature, and all his other many dimensions extend like spokes off that
hub.
#2. Proud/Shamed. He’s proud of his son’s loving gentleness yet
shamed by the boy’s weak-willed, suicidal nature.
#3. Calculating/Intuitive. For months, Tony plays Sherlock Holmes as
he gathers evidence in his search for the informant who’s ratting him out to
the FBI. Then in a dream while suffering food poisoning, a fish comes to
Tony, speaking in the voice of his longtime friend and family strong arm,
Sal “Big Pussy” Bonpensiero. The fish tells him that his suspicions about
Big Pussy are correct. Big Pussy is the FBI rat. So based on a dream, Tony
murders his friend.
#4. Depressed/Optimistic. Despair versus hope war within him.
#5. Loyal/Treacherous. He’s devoted to his wife yet betrays her with
his many mistresses.
#6. Calm/Panicked. He’s logical and emotional; he’s cool under
pressure but a victim of panic attacks.
#7. Fearless/Terrified. When threatened by gangsters, he’s fearless, but
the chance of a terrorist attack terrifies him.
#8. Sneering/Envying. Tony sneers at the lives of normal people, yet he
envies the lives of normal people.
#9. Kills/Saves. He hates human beings and kills them, but he loves
animals and protects them.
#10. Loves women / Fears women. Tony is a macho sex addict, yet he
is tortured by nightmares of castration.
#11. Loves family / Hates family. He hates his mother / loves his
mother, hates his uncle Junior / loves his uncle Junior, and above all he
loves himself / hates himself.
#12. Loves life / Loves death. He enjoys life’s beauty but finds death
more and more intoxicating with each murder he commits.
Tony Soprano is far more dimensional than Hamlet. Shakespeare
surrounded Hamlet with a cast of just ten over only four hours of
dramatization. David Chase set Tony in a cast of many dozens through
eighty-six hours of choices, actions, and reactions socially, personally,
privately, consciously, and subconsciously. Tony is a modern model of
character complexity because his dimensions crisscross all levels of his
being.
Yet try as he may, unlike Hamlet, Tony cannot change. The series’
narrative drive raises the major dramatic question: Will Tony change into a
morally better human being? Answer: No. The Tonys of this world cannot
and do not change their core selves.
10

THE COMPLEX CHARACTER

COMPLEXITY THROUGH ANTAGONISM
Stoic philosophers, beginning around 300 BC, taught that the gods
predetermine life. Olympians know all of mankind’s future events but hide
them until they happen. Stoics called this force Fate, and this belief lives on
today. When, for example, a tragic accident takes a child’s life, his parents
often tell the TV cameras that they bow to “God’s will.”
Epicurean philosophers took the opposite view. They held that what we
mistake for a power outside of ourselves is the work of a free will hidden
within ourselves. Random events beyond human control may disrupt us, but
our will-driven reactions determine the path life takes. The choices we
make under these pressures shape our future. As Heraclitus put it,
“Character is destiny.”
The latter belief seems the more likely. An invisible force, as it were,
does shape a character’s life, but it emanates from within himself. As Carl
Jung taught, the conscious mind lives on the edge of a volcano, and unless a
character becomes aware of his subconscious impulses, life will always
seem beyond control, and surprising things will always happen to him as if
by fate.
Picture two ships in a raging storm: One stays afloat; the other goes
under. The same seas batter both; the difference is not luck but who
captains. As Cassius puts it in The Tragedy of Julius Caesar: “The fault,
dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves, that we are underlings.”
As a young character comes of age, a perfect storm of external forces
affects his sense of values: What is worth pursuing? What’s foolish to
pursue? When his subconscious reinforces his inclinations, they become
beliefs. These convictions, rooted in his true character, guide him through
this pattern:
1. Based on his beliefs, his core self determines the choices and actions
he makes and takes; conversely, his choices express his true
character.
2. His choices under pressure shape his future, not only revealing who
he is but how he changes into who he becomes.
3. The more various the antagonisms in his life, the more diverse his
choices.
4. The more diverse his choices, the more complex his nature, and thus
the more dimensional, unpredictable, surprising, and ultimately
revealing his reactions and actions.
5. His character, therefore, becomes only as multidimensional as the
story’s complex of antagonistic forces that conflict within him.
Levels and qualities of conflict range from the physical (nature’s powers
spanning from the massive forces of the universe to microscopic diseases)
to the social (demands of employment and citizenship) and personal
(demands of intimate relationships) to the internal (the mind’s conflicting
desires).
Let’s work from outermost to the innermost to see how levels of
antagonism multiply dimensionality into a complex character.

PHYSICAL CONFLICTS
A story’s outermost level of conflict embraces the four grand components
of the physical world:
1. Natural environments and the powers they contain. From the human
point of view, nature is as random as a tornado, as fierce as a wolf
pack, and as morally indifferent as evolution.
2. Man-made environments and the systems they control. Civilizations
were conceived with a moral as well as a practical purpose. We
human beings, therefore, share responsibility for both the beauty of
our creations and the ill effects of pollution, global warming, war,
and all other man-made disasters.
3. Our bodily environment and its many maladies. The brain lives
inside a trouble-prone beast. This body inflicts aggravations on the
mind that range from illnesses to aging to an unfortunately shaped
nose. These conflicts are partly random, partly predictable, partly
indifferent, partly self-inflicted.
4. Our temporal environment and its brevity. Time contains all that
exists, and over time it will erase all.
Let’s sketch out a characterization based on behaviors at the physical
level only: A young man is a daredevil who ski-jumps from frightening
heights. If he buys trendy outfits he really can’t afford, he enjoys provoking
envy in the ski-lodge spotlight. If he arrives for jump practice hours before
sunup, then nervously glances at his watch until his coach arrives, he suffers
from time anxiety. If he constantly calls his mother for advice, he lacks
maturity. Put these traits together and he becomes an athletic,
hyperimpatient, self-absorbed, immature thrill seeker.
At this point, his multifaceted characterization prepares him only for a
supporting role. To evolve him into a complex protagonist, we need to
transform his traits into dimensions. As noted above, when one trait
consistently contradicts another, the tension between them fuses into a
dimension. So, let’s take each of his traits, imagine its opposite, and see
where that leads.
If his vanity hides self-doubt, if PEDs fuel his athleticism, if the
adrenaline rush that propels his death-defying stunts masks a mama’s boy
longing for a dead father, if his every leap off a ski jump is a minisuicide, if
his anxiousness only calms when he’s in midair, he might earn a story of his
own.

SOCIAL CONFLICTS
Now let’s look at social structures and a character’s struggles at this level of
life.
Massive institutions harden over time into hierarchies on a scale so great
that the people in them feel little or no personal responsibility. These
hierarchies shape human beings into the roles to be played, then organize
them inside a pyramidal system in which the people at the bottom have no
power, the people at the top have great power, and the people in the middle
grab for power as they jostle up and down the chain of command. Stressful
as these massive systems are, they couldn’t exist unless the people in them
welcomed their roles. Indeed, institutions raise us, educate us, support us,
and mold the roles we play.
As the documentarian Frederick Wiseman exposed in more than forty
film studies of institutions, those who reach an organization’s pinnacle tend
to be efficient but callous. As a result, from governments, corporations, and
militaries to hospitals, monasteries, and families, institutions, to some
degree, narrow their members into someone less than the ideal human
being. The grand irony of civilization is that although social structures
protect us from one kind of suffering (death by starvation), they inflict
misery of another (begrudging obedience).1 And humanity has no
alternative. We need institutions to progress us on an outer level while we
pay a price on an inner level.
The ideologies that govern institutions span a spectrum that runs from “I
am my brother’s keeper” to “Every man for himself.” At the “Every man
for himself” end of the spectrum sits predatory capitalism. This system
exploits our innate drives for self-importance, wealth, and power.
Sociopaths thrive in this environment. In the population as a whole,
sociopaths constitute 1 percent; on Wall Street, 10 percent.2 At the “I am
my brother’s keeper” pole sit absolute governments and dictators claiming
to care for their citizens but giving them no choice in what they get.
Sociopaths feel equally at home here.
In between these two extremes are meritocracies that promote people up
the ladder of power based on hard work, intelligence, and achievement.
Once in power, however, these elites pull the ladder up after them, turning
their meritocracy into an oligarchy. In the United States, for example,
wealthy white Protestant men wrote the Constitution, then created
industries and universities—but at the same time, they built their power on
slavery, Jim Crow, anti-Catholicism, anti-Semitism, anti-Hispanicism, and
anti-feminism.3
Because institutions deindividualize, they cause people to do things they
normally wouldn’t. Would a normal person taunt a stranger into killing
himself? No, but a study of suicides committed in public found that once
onlookers gather, they often become a mob, a momentary institution
working in unison to bait the guy on the ledge into jumping. Every year
during religious ceremonies and sporting events, panicking out-of-control
crowds of passionate, like-minded people trample each other to death.4
To cope with institutions, a character, beginning in childhood, straps on
various social selves to guide his public interactions. Each social self has a
set of traits designed to deal with the various institutions he faces. He does
not chat with his professor in the same manner he talks to his rabbi or the
clerk at the DMV or his boss at work or his cohorts at QAnon or his
commanding officer in the National Guard.
So let’s give a character a half-dozen traits based on the roles he plays
when coping with stress and conflict within these institutions: (1) humble
when meeting with his professor, (2) shamed when confessing to his rabbi,
(3) obsequious while taking his DMV license renewal test, (4) generous
when helping his boss solve a problem, (5) skeptical while conspiring about
politics online, and (6) frightened when yelled at by his commanding
officer.
These traits add up to a kind, shy, easily intimidated man—someone in
need of the friends he finds in a chat room. This monochrome
characterization may create a supporting role on the edge of events, but
once again, to take him center stage, contradictions are needed to turn his
traits into dimensions.
Suppose the humble excuses he uses in his professor’s office become
bragging recitations that bore his classmates; suppose his shame in his
rabbi’s office feeds a secret, perverse sex life; suppose he fawns at the
DMV, then drives off like a maniac; suppose his generosity toward his boss
reverses into stinginess with coworkers; suppose his conspiracy theory
cynicism stems from the gullible belief that people in power actually know
what they’re doing; suppose his fear of military authority unleashes a
murderous fury on the battlefield. If we were to wrap a story around him
that expresses these dimensions, he might carry a telling to a staggering
climax.

PERSONAL CONFLICTS
Public relationships value consequences; personal relationships value
intentions. When a person with social power chooses a course of action,
outcome matters more than sincerity. When someone in a personal
relationship takes action, sincerity matters more than outcome. We
condemn an investor’s financial mistakes no matter his personal intentions;
we forgive a lover’s insult in the hope he didn’t mean it.
Human beings suffer in social alienation but thrive in close company.
The difference between social and personal relationships is intimacy. What
bonds family to family, friend to friend, lover to lover are shared thoughts
and feelings normally never revealed in public. The chemistry of intimacy
takes two people beyond their social roles (coworkers, for example) to
friendship and rapport. Depending on the personalities involved, of course,
intimacy can be either joyful or painful.
As the core self moves from childhood to adulthood, it develops its
identity along a spectrum of experiences that runs from approving, intense,
and multiple loving intimacies at one end to insulting, cold, and singularly
cruel intimacies at the other. It is possible, as we often observe, for two
people to go through life in a personal relationship—father and son, for
example—and never share intimacy, only shifting balances of power. The
same is true for business partners who never become pals and strangers who
never become lovers.
Feelings run deepest at the personal level. This is why dramas of
personal catastrophe have greater impact than tales of social conflict:
Compare Macbeth to Coriolanus, Othello to The Winter’s Tale, King Lear
to Julius Caesar.
With each close friend, relative, or lover, a character evolves a version
of himself that he could not bring out all on his own. If intimacy ends, he
not only loses a loved one, he loses the version of himself that she inspired.
To extend the method of character enrichment I used at the physical and
social levels, I’ll add complexity to three characters by contradicting a trait
of characterization with a pattern of intimate behavior.

GENEROUS/SELFISH
Imagine a waiter working for tips who sends thoughtfully inscribed cards to
everyone in his family on every birthday and holiday; who bakes far more
cookies than necessary so he can share them by the dozen with
neighborhood friends; who drifts from heart-breaking love affair to heart-
breaking love affair in search of his dream lover. To everyone who knows

him, he’s an idealistic, people-loving saint. Then he wins the lottery.
A saint would donate his megamillions to charity, but this character
gives nothing to anyone. He banks it all, moves to a warmer clime, and
lives like royalty. When he baked cookies, sent cards, and slept around, he
was greedy for love. Now that he is rich, this ex-waiter finally gets what
he’s always wanted: people sucking up to him.

SUPPORTIVE/SUBVERSIVE
Picture a husband who does everything for his wife—shop and cook, fold
the laundry, and record her favorite shows. He listens patiently to her
complaints and never complains in return. His characterization convinces
his wife that he loves her and so she naturally loves him in return.
At parties, however, after a couple of drinks, he tells amusing tales about
his wife that implicitly belittle her. He then ends each sly insult with a
cheery “Isn’t that right, sweetheart?” Everyone who hears his anecdotes
knows that he thinks his wife is a fool. She, however, only nods and smiles.
He wounds her, and then forces her to show love in return by tagging his
attacks with “sweetheart.”

GUILT/FORGIVENESS
Imagine a hardworking careerist who takes his frustrations out on his
children, abuse after abuse. Then one day he tells them that his doctor
diagnosed him at risk for a stress-induced heart attack. Nonetheless, he
continues to work day and night, so the kids have to forgive his malice and
admire his courage. Better still, if he does not tell anyone about his pending
coronary and eventually collapses on the job, his kids are forced to love his
stoic sacrifice. Either way, his suffering vindicates his cruelty and his
children forgive his past abuse.5
As you labor over a character in the making, any pair of
positive/negative adjectives that comes to mind could inspire a dimension.
Hard/soft, sweet/sour, calm/hyper are three quick examples.

INNER DIMENSIONS
The mind is its own place and in itself can make a heaven of hell, a
hell of heaven.
—John Milton, Paradise Lost
All outer dimensions—physical, social, personal—trace their roots back
to the mind that gave them birth. As a result, complex characters tend to
pull the storytelling inside themselves until their inner conflicts become
more important, more fascinating than their outer struggles. This is true
even when a character’s inner conflicts finally burst into violence. Two
examples: Raskolnikov in Dostoevsky’s Crime and Punishment and
Katherine (Florence Pugh) in Alice Birch’s screenplay for Lady Macbeth.
As a writer works to fit a complex character to events and events to a
complex character, the turning points that matter most take place below the
surface. The author peers beneath the character’s words and gestures,
searching behind his eyes, drawn to his churning psychology, trying to
puzzle out the inner effects of what outwardly happens.
He may discover that his story’s external events cause internal reactions
that send his character on an arc of change that alters his nature for better or
worse: He becomes stronger or weaker, more childish or mature, more
fulfilled or emptied out. Interest in the hows and whys of this inner
evolution leads the writer’s imagination to enter the character’s core self,
and from this subjective point of view invent new events that will enhance
and express the character’s evolving nature. Changes in event design lead to
further exploration of inner character; changes in inner character lead to a
reinvention of events… and on the process goes.
Pensive minds like Shakespeare’s Hamlet and Virginia Woolf’s Clarissa
Dalloway suffer what today we term cognitive dissonance. They flail in the
chasm between thought and action. Their minds rage with an inner turmoil
of memories, longings, night and day fantasies, streaming conscious and
semiconscious anxieties over acting or not acting, sorting the real from the
unreal, the true from the false, until their final choice is carried out in a
single action.
More often than not the spark of contradiction that ignites a dimension
comes from the negative side of human nature, the side people hide but
writers excavate. These primal sources of character complexity flow from
two inner levels: thought-driven contradictions vying in the conscious mind
and wordless conflicts warring in the subconscious.

CONSCIOUS CONFLICTS
Depending on his depth of self-awareness, a complex character thinks
about, or to some degree senses, his inner incongruities and the disruptions
they cause. In his private realm, he knows that sometimes he sees the truth
of things, at other times he’s blind to the obvious; sometimes he’s kind, at
other times cruel. In most cases, he tries to resolve these contradictions or at
least get them under control.
Some private dimensions operate at the thinking level and connect two
opposed qualities such as Intelligent/Unintelligent, Curious/Incurious, or
Imaginative/Unimaginative. Other paradoxes come from the more sentient
dimensions of Impulsive/Reflective, Angry/Calm, and Courageous/Timid
that give a role emotional complexity.
Many social institutions were invented specifically to address one of
these inner conflicts: Alcoholics Anonymous copes with the
Craving/Spurning mind of the addicted. Buddhism calms the chronic
worrier’s Past/Future frets, what Buddhists call the Monkey Mind—frantic
images and words screeching and swinging from idea to idea, flinging
thought feces at mental walls.
Let’s sketch a couple examples of inner contradiction in the private
realm. We’ll start once again with a trait and contradict it into a dimension.

LESS VERSUS MORE
Imagine a character who asks for nothing and lives a quiet life of less.
Because he wants nothing, he lacks the focused desire of a protagonist.
Now suppose an experience were to inspire in him a desire to expand
outwardly into the noisy life of more. An inner contradiction could take
hold between his wish to be celebrated and his need to stay hidden, between
his impulse to express himself and his fear of exposure. With these
dimensions, he could now star in his own story, as does Arthur Less in Less,
a novel by Andrew Sean Greer.
This contradiction between the need for less and the need for more,
between inner and outer lives anchors Shakespeare’s most complex
character: Hamlet. When Hamlet looks outward, trying to change the public
world for the better, the corruption he finds disgusts him. When he looks
inward, trying to change his inner world for the better, the paralysis he finds
also disgusts him. He is withdrawn yet theatrical, consumed with grief yet
flamboyant with wit, hyperaware of his inner self yet blind to his effect on
others, an intellect without a strategy, an unstable self in search of an
identity. Because both his inner and outer worlds seem meaningless, he
verges on madness.

BELIEF VERSUS SKEPTICISM
Beliefs treat illusions as truths. Commonly held ideas such as “Human
beings are more good than evil,” “The Constitution embodies the perfect
political system,” “God rules the universe,” and “My people are superior to
your people” unify a society. When reality finally drags an illusion into the
light, public belief withers, unity fractures, and people revolt. In the
aftermath of revolution, however, society regroups around a more credible
illusion and builds institutions to replace an old belief with a new fallacy.
Understanding this cycle, novelist Joseph Conrad divided his characters
into two types: Idiots and Convicts. Idiots believe in illusions and enslave
themselves to these ideas. Conradian idiots become heroes and nemeses,
superpatriots and supervillains.
Convicts see illusions for what they are—comforting deceptions that
protect us from an indifferent, hostile, chaotic universe. To a Conradian
convict, action seems pointless. They often become the passive/reactive
characters of pensive films, plays, and novels.
The writer’s problem becomes this: A belief inspires something worth
doing; stories put beliefs into action. A character void of belief can only
pose like a statue.
Imagine, for example, a chronic skeptic who thinks beliefs are for fools.
He trusts no one and nothing. He never acts, he only scoffs; sardonic wit is
his sole trait. This convict might make an amusing sidekick or subject for a
short story, but he hasn’t the heft to carry a full-length telling. A story’s
spine of action needs a lightning charge of belief to animate action.
So, to prepare a skeptic for his story, give him a belief; to add
complexity, contradict it. You could, for example, test his views about the
supernatural. Does he believe in the existence of a supreme being or not?
As a cynic, he’s probably an agnostic who believes that the only logical
position on the question of God’s existence is to doubt both theism and
atheism. On that point he’s unshakable… until he falls in love with a
believer and begins to doubt his doubt. What will he finally believe or not
believe? Whichever way it turns, he’s now an interesting man with story
potential.
Each of these examples explored just one dominant dimension, but
multiple inner contradictions can easily coexist in the same character, as
they did in Odysseus and Tony Soprano. Indeed, the modern writer’s
ambition for the longform hundred-hour screen series demands characters
of seemingly inexhaustible dimensionality, so that five years after their
debut they still amaze audiences with hitherto unrevealed dynamics.
The list of conflicting contradictions in human consciousness seems
endless. Think of any adjective, imagine its opposite, and you have the
beginning of a character dimension: Independent/Dependent,
Neuroticism/Stability, Extraversion/Introversion,
Agreeableness/Disagreeableness, Open-to-experience/Closed-to-
experience, Conscientiousness/Carelessness, and on it goes. The only limit
is your imagination.6

CONSCIOUS VERSUS SUBCONSCIOUS

CONFLICT
When talking about the innermost self, I prefer the term subconscious to
unconscious. To me, the un- in unconscious suggests an inert, coma-like
state, mindless as a rock. In fact, this deepest realm is an active, cognitive
subconscious. Sub- simply means “below consciousness.”7
During the night, the subconscious rises into mindfulness, disguised
inside the symbolic objects and irrational story lines of dreams. Throughout
the day, however, the hidden self stays unknown and unheard, busily
driving the desires that consciousness puts into action.
Because the core self is unaware of this process, a character believes he
guides his own life. In fact, he is not in command. An alien, hidden self also
occupies him. As Freud said, “The manifestations I notice in myself but do
not know how to link up with the rest of my mental life seem to belong to
another person.”
The conscious and subconscious aspects of the mind are Janus-faced,
inseparable, conflicted, and overlapping. Where does the subconscious end
and the conscious begin? When does a character become aware of his
subconscious desires? When does a conscious habit sink into the unthinking
and instinctive? No clear line separates the two. In the sections that follow, I
hold these inner realms apart to illustrate the principles of character design.
In your work to create multidimensional roles, however, you will have to
draw the line specifically, character by character.
Confronting antisocial, often violent subconscious impulses is the
primary moral struggle for almost every complex character you create.
Embracing the hidden self’s dark heart as well as its halo of light is
essential to self-knowledge. Light, of course, is easy to see; making
darkness visible takes courage.
When a story’s inciting incident throws the life of a complex character
out of balance, two desires appear simultaneously: (1) a conscious object of
desire, a specific thing or situation that he feels would restore balance. (2) a
subconscious, nascent desire that has lain undisturbed for years stirs to life.
THE CONSCIOUS OBJECT OF DESIRE
Everyone wants reasonable control over their existence and the events that
impact it. When an inciting incident throws life out of kilter, the desire to
restore equilibrium naturally arises within a protagonist. What he must do
to achieve this rebalance may be unclear at first, but sooner or later he will
conceive of his object of desire, something he believes has the power to put
his life back on its feet.
Depending on the genre, his object of desire could be a physical thing
such as a dead monster in the Horror film like Splinter; a situation such as a
family reunion in a Domestic Drama like The Corrections by Jonathan
Franzen; or an experience such as a spiritual transformation in an Evolution
Plot like The Razor’s Edge by W. Somerset Maugham.
In the vast majority of stories, the protagonist’s conscious pursuit of an
object of desire is sufficient to carry the telling.
THE SUBCONSCIOUS OBJECT OF DESIRE
When a deeply conflicted, complex protagonist begins pursuit of his object
of desire, his subconscious often comes into play as well and adds a
counterdesire. The subconscious has its own wants and knows what steps to
take.
As a result, the inciting incident also provokes a subconscious drive, a
hidden hunger that seeks its own object of desire, one that will satisfy a
long dormant and unrecognized wish or grievance. This subconscious
desire contradicts the protagonist’s conscious desire, making the character,
in many ways, his own worst enemy. A nascent counterdesire rarely, if ever,
focuses on a physical object alone. Once again, depending on genre, his
counterdesire could be either a situation such as the domination of an older
sibling in a Domestic Drama, like the Skyler/Marie subplot in Breaking
Bad, or an experience such as a transcendent, life-fulfilling romance in a
Love Story, like The Bridges of Madison County.
If a character’s conscious and subconscious desires are the same
(hungry, he opens his refrigerator; horny, he masturbates; depressed, he
calls a friend) they add neither complexity nor depth. Why give a character
a subconscious desire if it just happens to be the same thing he wants
consciously? Who would notice?
But if these two desires contradict each other, if his subconscious desire
blocks and reverses his conscious will, then things get interesting.
Psychologists from William James to Jacques Lacan have argued that the
subconscious is a contra-mirror of its conscious cousin. For writers, reverse
reflection has been common knowledge for centuries.
For a subconscious desire to draw the interest of a reader/audience, it
must directly contradict or sharply contrast with the character’s conscious
hopes and longings. Then people notice… with interest.
The exact balance of power between a character’s conscious and
subconscious selves is up to the writer to strike: Neither dismiss it cynically
as animal instinct, nor smugly treat it with a mechanical calculation.

LOVE VERSUS HATE
Consider the dimension that contradicts love with hate:
Jules Feiffer’s screenplay for Carnal Knowledge spans the life of
Jonathan Fuerst (Jack Nicholson) from his college days to middle age. If we
were to ask Jonathan what he wants out of life, his conscious answer would
be: “I’m a good-looking, fun-loving financial success. My life would be
paradise if I could just find the perfect woman to share it.” Over the decades
he meets woman after woman, all attractive, all intelligent, all loving, but
every affair falls into the same pattern: a beautifully amorous beginning, a
bitter, boring middle, an ugly, humiliating break-up. In the wreckage of
romance, each woman finds herself abandoned.
Jonathan’s dominant dimension follows the tradition set by Don Juan
and Vicomte de Valmont: the woman-hating romantic. Consciously, he tells
himself that he gave a lifetime of love to women, and yet they, for various
reasons, always broke his heart. Subconsciously, he loathed each and every
one. Every year, he seduced a woman into adoration, then once he trapped
her in that vulnerable place, he systematically crushed the heart out of her.
The conscious desire to love and subconscious urge to hate have coexisted
since monogamy.

FEAR VERSUS COURAGE
Action writers work along a spectrum that runs from life-risking action to
paralyzed terror. When a dimension connects these two extremes, the result
is genuine heroism.
Fear is an instinctive reaction to the threat of death, followed by an
impulse to flee; courage is a deliberate choice to risk death, followed by
action against the threat. Absolute fear begins in the subconscious and
ultimately takes full control of a coward; absolute courage begins in a
conscious choice and drives an Action Hero.
Superheroes, such as Spider-Man and Wolverine, build a character
around one fantastic dimension, often fusing the human with the mythical,
animal, magical, or pseudoscientific. Crime fighters, such as John McClane
or Dirty Harry Callahan, cluster a characterization of true-to-life yet cool
traits into a romanticized tough guy. Both types exhibit superlative, self-
sacrificial, courageous altruism on behalf of the victimized, but nothing
from their interior ever contradicts anything on their exterior.
Complex heroes such as Henry Fleming in Stephen Crane’s novel The
Red Badge of Courage or Richard Phillips (Tom Hanks) in Captain Phillips
pit their conscious moral strength against a fear-soaked subconscious. In
other words, unlike the idealized calm of an action hero, the mind of a
realistic hero does not disconnect the conscious from the subconscious.
Rather, the character makes decisions to take life-risking actions while
simultaneously gripped by fear.
CONFLICTS WITHIN THE SUBCONSCIOUS
Readers and audiences perceive subconscious dimensions by implication.
They compare what a character says with what he does; they match the
reasons and rationalizations he gives others against the actual choices and
actions he takes in the world. When they spot an inconsistency, they sense a
clash of forces at work behind his eyes, fears skulking in the darkness
versus angers aimed at the world. These deepest of all wars pit two
irreconcilable hungers against each other. Ineffable subconscious conflicts,
invisible to the character but glimpsed by the reader/audience, then push
and pull through the story.
Portraying these hidden, primal conflicts may be the most difficult work
that ever confronts an author. Novelists and short story writers often use an
omniscient third-person narrator to describe a character’s psychic tensions
directly to the reader. Screenwriters and playwrights also use this device but
rarely. Of the two kinds of storytellers—those who explain and those who
imply—I prefer the latter.

SELF VERSUS OTHER
The lower brain obeys two imperatives: Protect yourself and protect your
gene pool. In the balance, the life force feels that the second duty is more
important than the first. For this reason, parents sacrifice themselves for
their children, soldiers die for their country, and believers strap on dynamite
vests to kill nonbelievers. The choice between self and genes may seem
irrational at times, but it drove the evolution of life on our planet.
Consequently, the most persistent, virtually daily conflict waged within the
subconscious mind is self-love versus other-love.8
As a famous example, consider Robert Benton’s screenplay for Kramer
vs. Kramer. Ted Kramer (Dustin Hoffman) begins the story as a self-
absorbed, immature workaholic whose wife labors as a stay-at-home mom
for his son while playing surrogate mother to him. Her sudden
abandonment of both throws Kramer’s self-content life radically out of
balance. This negative turning point arouses within Kramer a previously
suppressed, never-acted-on need: the subconscious longing to be a mensch,
a loving human being. His son’s well-being becomes far more important
than his own. At the climax, he acts to forfeit his needs for his son’s.

ILLUSION VERSUS DELUSION
Another conflict that could arise in the subconscious concerns a character’s
processing of reality—the difference between illusion and delusion. An
illusion is belief in a false perception, such as a mirage, a phantom limb, or
faith in the impossible; a delusion is a rigid belief in a false reality, a
symptom typical of mental disorder.
In the backstory of A Streetcar Named Desire, Tennessee Williams’s
protagonist, Blanche DuBois, pursued girlhood illusions of romantic love
into a ruinous marriage, loss of her family estate, and secret years as a
prostitute. Despite it all, she held on to her princess illusions and fantasized
an ideal life to come. Finally, under extremes of alcohol, humiliation, and
sexual violence, her self-deceptions collapse into total delusion and an
asylum for the insane.
Absurdist farces, such as Edward Albee’s A Delicate Balance, aside,
characters beset with dimensions of subconscious contradiction often end in
death or madness.
CASE STUDY: ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA
For two examples of how dimensions on multiple levels crisscross in a
complex character, consider Shakespeare’s magnificent lovers, Antony and
Cleopatra.
Antony’s prime dimension pits his social self against his hidden self: his
command of the Roman Empire versus his lust for the queen of Egypt. Or
put another way, a conflict between conscious reason and subconscious
drive. Antony’s political self pushes his reputation to its furthest reaches,
while his inner self craves carnality at its most intense.
This clever, articulate, pragmatic, proud general is not confused about
the politics of Rome. Antony knows what he ought to do. But he’s also a
pleasure-loving, beauty-obsessed, lovesick fool. His hunger for Cleopatra
drives what he wants to do. And, as noted, the difference between ought and
want is all the difference in the world.
To further enrich Antony’s nature, Shakespeare added numerous
contradictions over a wide range of behaviors. When he is on the world’s
stage, he roars in the rugged, heedless voice of a warrior-general. When he
lounges with Cleopatra, he speaks with the kiss-soaked, caressing voice of a
poet. He commands legions yet enslaves himself to a woman. He’s an adult
at the head of his armies, an adolescent at the feet of his beloved. He is
willful on the battlefield, will-less in Cleopatra’s bed.
If we look into the heart of Antony, we may see that for him war and
love are just two versions of passion and pleasure. As people who love war
will tell you, killing is a passion and victory a deep pleasure. In the film
Patton, for example, when General George Patton surveys the carnage of
dead and bleeding soldiers on a smoldering battlefield, he whispers, “God
help me, but I love it so.” The same words he might whisper in a midnight
passion.
Cleopatra is one of Shakespeare’s most complex characters. She’s a
royal decadent and an innocent enchantress. She’s courageous in the face of
her enemies yet panic-driven in war. She is a nonstop actress who fills her
performances with such truth of feeling, no one doubts her.
In fact, men find her so alluring, that what in other women would be
defects and vices, in her become perfections and virtues: Her vicious anger
becomes aristocratic command; her wild wailings become the tears of
sorrow; her immature clowning becomes charming humor; her drunkenness
becomes queenly celebration; her nagging becomes concern for Antony; her
begging and bargaining become humility and reasonableness; her bad jokes
become wit; her wanton sexuality becomes charisma; her limitless ego and
vanity get reinterpreted into patriotism and love of country.
Cleopatra’s genius is this: When forces of rage, greed, and lust arise
from her subconscious, her perceptive mind captures them before they can
reach the world and converts them into entrancing, persuasive
performances. What her lover, her enemies, and subjects see is not darkness
but greatness. As a result, her core dimension mirrors Antony’s: shrewd,
willful, calculating ambition versus foolish, weak-willed, surrender to
passion.
Some define tragedy as never getting what you want; others suggest that
true tragedy gives you exactly what you want at its full price.
CHARACTER CONFLICT IN DEPTH
We often think of characters as if they were containers. We package their
qualities inside spatial modifiers such as “round” and “flat.” We label the
incurious as “square,” bores as “shallow,” and bigots as “narrow,” while a
mind open to new ideas seems “broad.” And perhaps the most common
person-as-a-vessel allusion: “deep.”
These adjectives serve as conversational shorthand, but to invent an
intriguing, multidimensional role, an author takes the measure of a soul. By
what gauge does someone seem full or empty? How can a writer sound the
depths of character?
Human beings have an inborn echo device that pings into play the
moment they meet someone. This instantaneous instinct needs no thought;
it knows it when it sees it. Our subconscious sonar quickly tracks signs in
the face, hears tremors in the voice, senses tensions in gestures, then looks
behind the eyes to plumb the inner energies of a human vessel. This
sounding of depth has a name: First Impression.
The first-impression instinct evolved to answer the question, “Can I trust
this person?” The answer was (and still is) a key to survival. Characters that
readers and audiences instinctively trust and admire over time tend to have
inner dimensions reaching into their private and hidden selves. This sense
of depth encourages empathy and trust.
Below are ten traits associated with depth of character, followed by
examples taken from stage, screen, and page. If your storytelling ambitions
call for characters of complexity and depth, this list should spur your
imagination.
1. Ironic Self-Awareness
He is always on guard against self-deception and rarely fooled by what goes
on inside his own mind. Example: Claire Underwood (Robin Wright) in
Beau Willimon’s longform series House of Cards.
2. Insight into Others
He is always aware of public pretensions and never fooled by what goes on
inside society. Example: Madame Merle in Henry James’s The Portrait of a
Lady.
3. Intelligence
He can think. He gathers knowledge from all disciplines and commands the
logic that puts it to work. Example: Miss Marple in twelve novels and
twenty short stories by Agatha Christie.
4. A History of Suffering
As Aeschylus wrote in The Oresteia:
Even in our sleep, pain which cannot forget falls drop by drop upon
the heart until, in our despair, against our will, through the terrible
grace of God, comes wisdom.
Although a character wishes for happiness, he finds depth through
suffering. The happy mind thinks about life’s benefits; the suffering mind
sinks deeper into itself. Suffering takes a character beneath his routines to
discover he is not who he thought he was. Losing a loved one smashes
through the floor of the core self, revealing a deeper level. Grief then
smashes through that floor, revealing yet greater depth.9
Try as people may, they cannot tell themselves to stop feeling pain.
Suffering gives them a more accurate sense of their limitations, what they
can and cannot control. Pain propels a callow mind into maturity. The wise
response places anguished experiences in a moral context and redeems
something bad by turning it into something precious. In short, a deep soul
has witnessed pain, caused pain, and lived with the guilt. Example: Mike
Ehrmantraut (Jonathan Banks) in Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul risks
his life in crime after crime to provide a future for his granddaughter.
5. Broad Experience over Time
A young character may seem wise beyond his years, but in truth, depth
needs wide-ranging experience and, above all, time. Example: Claudia
Hampton in Penelope Lively’s novel Moon Tiger.
6. Focused Attention

Face-to-face, he listens intently, makes eye contact and reads subtext.
Example: Don Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando / Robert De Niro) in The
Godfather and The Godfather Part II.
7. Love of Beauty
Depth sharpens his sensitivity until beauty is almost painful. Example:
Aaliya Sohbi in An Unnecessary Woman by Rabih Alameddine.
8. Calm
No matter the threat or stress, he keeps his passions under control.
Example: Captain Augustus “Gus” McCrae (Robert Duvall) in Larry
McMurtry’s miniseries, Lonesome Dove, which was based on his novel.
9. Cynic and Skeptic
Hope, he believes, is the denial of reality. He doesn’t trust anything anyone
says until he tests it against his own mind. Example: Mama Nadi in Ruined
by playwright Lynn Nottage.
10. A Searcher for Meaning
He gets God’s joke. He knows life has no intrinsic meaning. So he searches
for one somewhere in the gap between living for yourself and living for
others. Example: Benna Carpenter in Lorrie Moore’s novel Anagrams.
Roll these traits into one role and they often create an antihero—a loner
hardened by bad luck but vulnerable to the suffering of others; a stoic
bemused by his own suffering; sharp-witted in public, self-mocking when
alone; cynical about society’s rules, committed to a personal code; a
romantic wary of romance.
All ten traits embedded themselves in Sam Spade (The Maltese Falcon),
Rick Blaine (Casablanca), and Philip Marlowe (The Big Sleep), who were
portrayed to perfection three times over by Humphrey Bogart. Few actors
since have been tested to that depth; Denzel Washington first among the
best.
LIFE IN THE SUBTEXT
Text: a character’s outer behavior in word and action. These verbal and
physical expressions stimulate images in a reader’s imagination or strike the
eye and ear of an audience. Together, they create his characterization.
Subtext: a character’s thoughts and feelings that are conscious but
unexpressed as well as subconscious and thus inexpressible. The core self
plies these ideas and attitudes within himself and to no one else; while at a
deepest level of subtext, his ineffable moods and desires pulse below his
awareness.10
Minor characters are text only. These roles serve a story by acting out
exactly who they seem to be. The writer deliberately denies them depth and
an inner life worth knowing.
A major character, on the other hand, is not who he seems. His text of

characterization masks the mystery of his core self, alive in the subtext. His
implicit inner life intrigues readers and audiences, sparking the question,
“Who is this character… really?” The scent of subtext invites them to
explore and unearth the truth of this unknown self. In short, a beautifully
conceived and executed multidimensional character turns readers and
audiences into psychics.
Think about your own story-going hours. When you follow a character’s
life, turning pages of prose or sitting in a dark theatre, don’t you have the
distinct impression that you’re reading minds, reading emotions? Your
perceptions seem to travel beneath their behaviors, and you think to
yourself, “I know what’s going on inside that character better than he
knows. I can see from the surface to the substance of what he’s really
thinking, really feeling, and really wanting, consciously and
subconsciously.”
You gain these insights on your own, as you must, because as in life,
depth can only be intuited. This is why two people experiencing the same
character often come away with very different interpretations. The
subtextural someone living inside a complex role can never be fully
explained in words, no matter who writes them. No one can tell you what to
think about a character, not even the character himself in his most heartfelt
confessions. The godlike omniscient narrators of the greatest of novels
imply more than they tell, leave far more unsaid than said. This is why the
archives of libraries stack thousands of works of literary criticism, all
asking who questions: Who is Hamlet? Who is Anna Karenina? Who is
Walter White?
The partition of text and subtext—what the world sees in the outer self
versus the truth concealed behind the eyes—is essential to sanity. If the
invasive world cannot be kept safely outside the mind, the inner life
becomes unlivable.
Like readers and audiences, characters themselves peer into the
subtextural depths of each other, trying to discover a hidden truth: Can I
believe him? What does he really mean? Really want? Who does he care
about? Himself or others? And on it goes as each character reads the subtext
of the others: Othello must discover if his wife is virtuous; Lear must
discover which daughter, if any, loves him; Hamlet must discover if his
uncle murdered his father and finally does so by reading Claudio’s guilty
reaction to a murder scene played out onstage.
Introspective characters rerun personal experiences as if they were TV
episodes, searching through their subtexts, analyzing their actions, trying to
figure out who they really are and how they got that way. Sometimes the
self-reflective mind uncovers hidden insights, learns from mistakes, and
increases self-awareness; at other times, it obsesses over its failures, doubts
its worth, and blinds itself to the truth.
Three examples: the self-absorbed, self-narrating protagonists of the
novels A Fan’s Notes by Frederick Exley; The Sea, The Sea by Iris
Murdoch; and The Woman Upstairs by Claire Messud.
11

THE COMPLETED CHARACTER
The golden ideal of character creation:
First, conceive of a compelling, complex nature, rich in human promise
but, like anyone with life left to live, incomplete. Then, as she makes and
takes pressure-filled decisions and actions over the course of the story,
progressively realize her unfulfilled potential. Finally, at the story’s climax,
send her through an experience, both emotionally and mentally, that propels
her to the absolute limits of her humanity: nothing left undiscovered,
nothing left unexplored, nothing left unused, nothing left unfelt, nothing left
unexpressed. Everything latent fulfilled, everything actable performed,
everything knowable revealed, everything latent expressed, every emotion
lived in full. The character is complete.
To achieve this ideal, role design takes four major steps: Preparation,
Revelation, Change, Completion.
FOUR MAJOR STEPS OF CHARACTER

DESIGN
1. Preparation
Principle: At the inciting incident, major characters are incomplete.
As a story begins, its major characters, like most people, have never
experienced their mental, emotional, and moral possibilities to their
absolute limits. Their feelings and thoughts have known a certain depth but
never the fullest range of passion and insight because life has never asked it
of them. They are incomplete but unaware of it. The story that lies ahead
will bring them experiences they’ve never known before and affect them in
ways they cannot see coming. Only the author knows what’s nascent within
them and what their true range of experience may be.
In my definition, character need is a void in a role’s humanity:
unthought intelligence, underfelt emotion, unused talent, underlived life.
Need is something half done that needs to be finished; something missing
that yearns to be found.
Therefore, as a complex character enters your story, she is a work in
progress. To reach the golden ideal, you must put your character through
encounters that will take her mentally and emotionally into the deepest
depths and farthest stretches of her humanity.
But what is her potential? Before your protagonist enters your story, take
her measure. What is her IQ and EQ? Her willpower? Her imagination? The
depth of her empathy? The height of her courage? Give thought to how far
life has taken her and how much deeper the future might carry her.
Next, ask this key question: What event would send my protagonist
along a spine of action that ends in a climax of such emotional power and
mind-expanding insight that she experiences her humanity at its supreme
limit and thus, for better or worse, completes herself? The answer, once you
find it, will become your story’s inciting incident. The choice of an inciting
incident perfectly tuned to the protagonist’s need makes fine writing
possible.
Four examples:
At the inciting incident of The Leftovers, the longform series by Damon
Lindelof and Tom Perrotta, 2 percent of the world’s population instantly
disappears. With that, co-protagonists Kevin Garvey (Justin Theroux) and
Nora Durst (Carrie Coon) suddenly find life meaningless.
At the inciting incident of Machinal, a play by Sophie Treadwell, Helen,
submitting to parental and social pressure, marries a man who disgusts her,
thinking that this will give her a secure life.
At the inciting incident of Fight Club, a novel by Chuck Palahniuk, the
protagonist, known only in the first-person voice of the narrator, moves in
with Tyler Durden, and together they build a fight club.
At the inciting incident of Mrs. Soffel, a film written by Ron Nyswaner,
Kate Soffel (Diane Keaton), a prison warden’s wife, decides to save the soul
of a condemned prisoner.
2. Revelation
Principle: A story’s dynamic of events reveals true character in
contrast with or contradiction to characterization.
The vast majority of all genres reveal an inner truth of their characters
but do not arc them. As Samuel Butler put it, “It is one against legion when
a creature tries to differ from his own past selves.” Deep character change is
difficult and exceptional. Six genres, however, do arc their protagonists
over the course of a telling, and these will be laid out in Chapter Fourteen.
The genres of Action/Adventure, War, Horror, Fantasy, and Crime, as
well as most dramas and comedies about physical, political, domestic, and
romantic struggles, submerge a core self beneath layers of believable yet
intriguing characterization. They then reveal this inner nature, exposing but
never changing the character’s psychology and morality. What changes is
the reader’s/audience’s insight.
The most powerful revelations occur when events put a character at
maximum risk. The choice, for example, between life and death is easily
made and any insight that follows relatively shallow. But a choice between
two deaths—one by a long, painful disease, the other by quick suicide—
strips away a character’s public and personal personae, revealing the core
self. By the same token, if she stands to lose a thing of great value in order
to gain another thing of equal value, her choice expresses who she is.
In Martin McDonagh’s play The Beauty Queen of Leenane, Maureen
Folan, a forty-year-old former inmate of an insane asylum, seems like a
submissive, intimidated overgrown child until she murders her mother, puts
on her mother’s clothes, and takes her mother’s place in the living room
rocking chair. In Maureen’s schizophrenic mind, she has always been her
mother; playing her daughter was just a temporary guise.
In J. D. Salinger’s novel The Catcher in the Rye, the cynical, lonely
Holden Caulfield suffers confusion about his sexuality and longing for an
idealized romance. He feels alienated from people and alienates others in
return. His attitudes vary, but his core self never fundamentally alters from
first page to last.
In Woody Allen’s Annie Hall, Alvy Singer’s boyhood insecurities
poisoned his adulthood. He so hates the truth, he chooses fantasy over
reality. Happiness so sours him, he chooses misery over joy. His obsession
with himself renders him incapable of love. Over time, his choices expose a
twisted, unchanging neurotic lurking under his wit and charm.
To sum up: As the outer circumstances in a protagonist’s life undergo
change, her choices and actions slowly uncover her core self. With each
word and gesture, her characterization peels away, leaving her true self
standing naked, as it were, at the climax. Although the true character, once
revealed, did not evolve, the reader’s or audience’s perceptions did,
growing deeper and deeper in understanding. Once again, this archetypal
pattern of a revealed but unchanged character underlies the vast majority of
major characters in the vast majority of all stories ever told.
Test this principle in your own work by asking two simple questions of
primary characters: Who do we think she is at the beginning of the story?
Who do we know she is by the story’s climax? Your answers should reveal a
change of insight in the reader/audience.
3. Change
Principle: Character change puts dimension into action.
An age-old puzzle known as the Ship of Theseus Paradox asks: “If a
ship is repaired slowly over time so that eventually every part is replaced, is
it still the same ship, deserving the same name? If, on the other hand, the
ship were lost at sea but another were remade to its exact specifications,
does it need a new name or is it essentially the same?”
In both cases not a single board, cleat, or sail is left from the original.
Nonetheless, the two ships prompt opposite conclusions: Most people feel
that the slowly repaired craft stays the same and should keep its name, but
the replacement vessel is new and needs a rechristening.
This archaic puzzle, of course, is not about nautical nomenclature. It’s a
metaphor for human change. Substitute identity for ship and it becomes a
parable that raises the questions of “Who am I? Who was I? Who will I be?
Will fate preserve me or remake me?” Like a ship navigating unknown
waters, a complex character sails through random, unexpected, life-
battering events that may or may not alter her nature.
Some writers react to character change the same way the public treats
the Theseus Paradox: Gradual revisions do not change their character’s core
identity, while the shock and scar of an explosive event mutates it. Other
writers do the opposite: Powerful events never dent their character, although
time may slowly evolve her.
As we saw in Chapter Three, every author needs a personal theory of
human nature so she can answer the question: “Does damage to my
character’s life change or not change her core identity?”
Which do you believe? Is a character, like the Ship of Theseus,
becoming a more concentrated although essentially unchanged self over
time, or is she transforming into a wholly different self that her past self
wouldn’t recognize? In other words, does your character’s every thought
evolve her into a minutely different self than she was the moment before?
Does every hour she spends with others gradually make her more like
them? Or do you believe that these shifts are trivial and that at heart your
character always stays who she is?
The Theory of Perpetual Identity
The theory of perpetual identity holds that a child at birth is a clean slate
and could become almost anyone, but as life inscribes her with experience,
she develops unique patterns of action/reaction that hold her mind together
and create her persistent identity. Shifts in characterization take place
around this stable center. Once the pattern is set, her choices and actions in
the story’s future events make her more and more specific, more and more
herself.
In Middlemarch, George Eliot expressed her belief in perpetual identity
with this often quoted image: “Even while we rave on the heights [we]
behold the wide plain where our persistent self pauses and awaits us.”
In tellings about a protagonist’s search for identity, characters such as
Jimmy Porter in John Osborne’s play Look Back in Anger and James
McBride in his memoir The Color of Water recognize their outer changes,
but at the same time feel that their past belongs to them and, in a sense, is
them. In fact, the act of retrospection itself implies a constant identity. If a
character’s core self didn’t persist through time, it couldn’t exist in the
present to look back at its past.
Many writers believe that the core self secures itself against a steady
succession of changes in its outer life—bodily changes, personal and social
changes in relationships, career moves, housing moves, and the like.
Constantly changing circumstances do not change its essence—least of all,
its moral nature.1 For example, Alex (Malcolm McDowell), the protagonist
of Stanley Kubrick’s A Clockwork Orange (a film adaptation of Anthony
Burgess’s novel), both inflicts and suffers hideous pain but stays steadfast,
even happily, the same.
The Theory of the Changing Identity
Animals obey instincts; humans analyze theirs. Wolves never worry about
what it means to be a wolf, they just wolf. But the self-aware human mind
frets over its urges and intuitions, charts the push and pull of instinct and
reason, all in an effort to become a better or at least a different version of
itself. For this reason, many writers believe that change is not only possible
but essential.
Change, when it occurs, arcs along a character’s defining dimension. In
John Milton’s epic Paradise Lost, for example, the protagonist’s core
contradiction is Good/Evil. The story traces a positive to negative arc as
Lucifer, Angel of Light (Good), compelled by pride, gathers an army of
like-minded angels and tries to overthrow God. After three days of war he’s
hurled out of Heaven and down to Hell, where he takes the name Satan,
Angel of Darkness (Evil).
Other examples: The dimension Kindness/Cruelty arcs from positive to
negative in Chuck Tatum (Kirk Douglas) in Billy Wilder’s Ace in the Hole,
but in the reverse direction in Amir in The Kite Runner by Khaled Hosseini.
Generosity/Greed swings from negative to positive in Ebenezer Scrooge in
Charles Dickens’s novella A Christmas Carol, but in the reverse for Bobby
Axelrod (Damian Lewis) in the Showtime series Billions. Multiple
dimensions could crisscross with irony: In Aravind Adiga’s novel The
White Tiger, Balram Halwai goes from law-abiding citizen to criminal
(positive to negative), while he also changes from impoverished laborer to a
corporate executive (negative to positive).
The value-charge in a changing self can pivot in one of two directions:
positive or negative.
Positive Arcs
Definition: A positive arc, as the name implies, ends on a positive charge. It
could open with a character in either a positive or a negative state, and then
move in alternating positive/negative cycles that increase their impact to a
climax that fulfills the character’s desire.
A positive arc, therefore, often begins when a character senses a
negative state within herself. At first, she resists change, but revelations of
yet more bitter truths eventually overcome her reluctance until she finally
reaches the top of a moral slope.
Examples:
In John Patrick Shanley’s play Doubt: A Parable, Sister Aloysius arcs
from an autocrat blinded by self-righteousness (Arrogance) to a woman
shamed by doubt (Humility).
In Danny Rubin’s screenplay for Groundhog Day, Phil Connors (Bill
Murray) evolves from an immature, self-absorbed egoist incapable of love
(Selfishness) to a mature, compassionate, heartful lover (Selflessness).
In J. M. Coetzee’s novel Disgrace, David Lurie, a manipulative seducer
and pretentious intellectual (Self-deception) slowly deconstructs his life and
finally accepts his place in a world beyond his control (Self-awareness).
Here from the series and films Sex and the City are four positive arcs
that take characters from incomplete to complete:
Carrie Bradshaw
Carrie (Sarah Jessica Parker) is a pop journalist who writes about sexual
and romantic relationships in New York City. Despite her intelligent study
and careful observations of these issues, her emotions dominate her choices
and behaviors. Carrie opens the series self-conscious and insecure. Over the
course of six seasons and two films she arcs to self-possessed and secure.
At the beginning of the series she seeks acceptance and reassurance
from her friends and the men in her life, particularly Mr. Big (Chris Noth).
Her neuroses become obsessions such as having a key to her lover’s
apartment and equal space in his bathroom cabinet. She’s aware of her
behavior and blames it on her tendency to “get carried away.” “Just tell me
I’m the one,” she begs Big at the end of Season 1. She’s flawed but
empathetic, thanks to her self-deprecating humor.
She searches for true love and commitment but doubts that she’s the
marriage and family type. Mr. Big, who she meets in the first episode of the
series, is her first and only great love. Despite her many other affairs, she
feels that Big is her soul mate. At the end of the sixth and last season, Big
announces that he is coming back to New York City from California to be
with Carrie. At the climax of the first film they marry. Question: Has she
arced to self-possession on her own, or has marriage done it for her?
Samantha Jones
The hypersexual Samantha (Kim Cattrall) is the oldest of the four friends
and owns her own PR firm. As a self-proclaimed “Try-Sexual” (meaning
she’ll try anything once), most of Samantha’s story lines revolve around her
sexual escapades. Passion is her passion, with or without romantic ritual,
but she never loves anyone other than herself. She seems incapable of love,
and so the series arcs her through a Redemption Plot.
Although sexually narcissistic, among her friends Samantha is the most
loyal and least judgmental. She engages in a few serious relationships, one
of them lesbian, but rarely dates anyone more than once or twice. In Season
6, however, two things happen: She gets involved with Smith (Jason Lewis)
and is diagnosed with breast cancer.
She faces her cancer with great courage and wit. No matter how ugly the
therapy, Smith stands by her through the worst of times. She loves him for
it; in the first film, set four years later, she lives with him in LA and does
her best to stay in a committed relationship.
But despite her tender feelings for Smith, she finds herself madly
attracted to her hypersexual neighbor. She finally questions her feeling and
concludes that she loves herself more than Smith. They break up. In the
second film, she’s back to her old self, having sex on the hood of a guy’s
Mercedes.
Samantha undergoes a double arc: loveless sexual obsession (her true
self) to committed sexless love (her false self) back to loveless sexual
obsession (her truest self).
Charlotte York
Charlotte (Kristin Davis) is a Connecticut blueblood, prom queen,
cheerleader, track star, teen model, equestrienne, Smith College grad, art
dealer—aka a WASP. She undergoes an Education Plot from naïve to
worldly.
She’s blindly romantic, always searching for her knight in shining
armor. The least cynical of her friends, she believes love conquers all. She
distains the libertine antics of her friends, convinced that dating has rules.
Her friends are often envious and even in awe of Charlotte’s overall
optimism about love. Yet she occasionally surprises them with dirty talk
and her love of oral sex.
Her belief in romance leads her to decide not to have sex with her fiancé
until their honeymoon, only to discover that her “perfect” husband is
impotent. She eventually divorces him due to his twisted relationship with
his mother.
Although Charlotte is initially put off by her divorce attorney’s constant
sweating, messy eating, bald head, and hairy body, she sleeps with him
when he confesses his intense attraction to her. Harry (Evan Handler) gives
her the best sex of her life. She tries to keep their relationship strictly
sexual, but because of Harry’s deep caring, she finds herself falling in love.
Initially, she tries to reform him to fit more closely with her image of the
ideal man, but when she realizes how much pain she’s causing him, she
accepts Harry the way he is. In fact, she converts to Judaism because of
Harry’s avowal to only marry a Jewish woman.
Only when Charlotte realizes that she must put aside her romantic ideals
and accept Harry on his own terms does she find a love that fulfills her
romantic ideals. The man who is the antithesis of the perfect man becomes
her ideal mate. She undergoes an arc from a real-life disaster with Mr. Right
to ideal love with Mr. Wrong.
Miranda Hobbes
Miranda (Cynthia Nixon), a Wall Street lawyer, overvalues work and
undervalues men. She arcs through a double Education Plot, changing her
attitudes toward both. In the early seasons, she treats men with distrust and
resentment, finding them immature and unrealistically romantic.
Then Miranda meets Steve (David Eigenberg), a bartender. What starts
as a one-night stand grows into sharing an apartment. Economic differences
cause arguments, so they separate but keep a friendly sexual relationship.
When Steve loses a testicle to cancer, Miranda sleeps with him to convince
him that women will still find him attractive whether he has one ball or two.
As a result, she gets pregnant but decides against an abortion. Pregnancy
softens her character and she tells Steve that she’ll take full responsibility,
raise the child, and let him visit the boy if he likes. Motherhood stresses this
workaholic, but she finds ways to balance career and a child. She and Steve
try to raise their son as platonic partners.
At the boy’s first birthday party, Miranda blurts out her love for Steve
and to her delight, Steve declares that she’s “the One.” They marry.
In the second film, Miranda is so overworked that she misses her son’s
school activities. What’s worse, her misogynistic boss disrespects her. Steve
convinces her to quit and find a fulfilling job at a firm where she’s admired
and appreciated. Miranda arcs from imbalance to balance in both work and
love.
Negative Arcs
A negative arc could begin with a character in either a positive or negative
state, and then alternate positive/negative cycles that deepen in impact until
ending in tragedy. This arc, of course, shapes the lives and deaths of
Shakespeare’s greatest dramatic characters: Antony and Cleopatra, Macbeth
and Lady Macbeth, Brutus and Cassius, Coriolanus, Richard III, Hamlet,
Othello, King Lear—all of whom complete themselves in a tragic climax.
Negative arcs often begin with a character living in youthful fantasies or
naïveté. Reality punctuates her dreams, but she insists on her beliefs until
she descends into a pain-filled, irreversible truth: Ibsen’s Hedda Gabler,
Strindberg’s Miss Julie, along with the protagonists of almost every play by
Tennessee Williams.
A Good-to-Evil arc could start with a sweet little girl and end with a
serial killer (The Bad Seed, a play by Maxwell Anderson), or begin with a
hard-working white collar engineer and end in a violent psychic breakdown
(Falling Down, a film by Joel Schumacher) or open with an idealist and arc
him into a mass murderer (Ostland, a novel by David Thomas).
In Thomas Hardy’s novel Jude the Obscure, Jude Fawley, a manual
laborer, homeschools himself in classical Greek and Latin in hopes of
becoming a university scholar (Fantasy). But lower-class deprivations and
upper-class bigotries quash his dream. He spends his entire working life
cutting stone until he dies in bitter poverty (Reality).
The backstory of George Lucas’s Star Wars saga mirrors Lucifer’s fall.
In it, a Jedi knight, Anakin Skywalker (Good), seeking power over life and
death in hope of saving the woman he loves, moves from the realm of light
to the infamous dark side. Burnt and dismembered in battle, he joins the
empire and takes the name Darth Vader (Evil).
In Patrick Marber’s play Closer, Dan, Anna, Larry, and Alice search for
loving, intimate relationships (Meaningful). All four cycle through years of
meeting, making love, partnering up, and breaking up, finally ending in
loneliness and discontent (Meaningless).
Character arcs, positive or negative, seldom trace a smooth line but more
likely move in dynamic zigzags. If a story’s values never change their
charge, the telling freezes into a portrait. Imagine if everything that happens
runs positive, positive, positive, finally leaving the cast beaming in delight.
Or if nothing but grim scenes surge further and further downhill until they
crush the characters at the bottom. Repetition is the writer’s mortal enemy.
Change from a Character’s POV
When your character looks back on her life, who does she see? Herself or
someone else? Is she still the same? Better? Worse? Unrecognizable? Does
she hate, like, or ignore who she was, who she is, who she will be?
Attitudes toward oneself span from narcissism to self-love to self-
respect to self-indifference to self-criticism to self-hate to thoughts of
suicide. Two contradictory visions bracket this spectrum: Life-as-Fate and
Life-as-Destiny.
Life-as-Fate: If your character looks backward, rarely forward, she may
feel trapped in a fate not her own. She may never satisfy her own desires,
only the demands of others. She feels lost and out of contact with her true
self, an identity hidden somewhere in her subconscious.
As this child of fate surveys her past, does she feel that instead of
evolving, she has turned into someone she doesn’t know? Do her old
beliefs, values, and goals seem lost? Do past desires and behaviors baffle
her? Does she wonder how she could have done the things she once did?
Do her past deeds seem alien, if not incomprehensible? Does change seem
so great that she can’t imagine how she could have ever been who she was?
In other words, is she self-alienated?
Life-as-Destiny: If your character looks forward, rarely backward, she
lives life on her own terms, freely choosing her own path. She never doubts
that she is her core self. Destiny implies a destination, and hers awaits in the
future, drawing her toward fulfillment.
As this child of destiny progresses to adulthood, does she identify with
her changed self? As her teenage anger softens into midlife contentment, as
her dedication to career gradually drains away, as arthritis slowly ages her,
does she look back and feel that although she’s evolved physically and
emotionally, at heart she’s essentially the same? Has her original
psychological makeup evolved naturally? Do her past desires influence
present actions? In other words, is she self-empathetic? How does your
character see herself over time?
For some characters, change brings clarity. In Frank Darabont’s
screenplay for The Shawshank Redemption, Red (Morgan Freeman) sees his
past without distortion or rationalization and wishes he could go back in
time to his young self, who had committed a terrible crime, and shake sense
into him.
For some characters, change brings confusion. In D. H. Lawrence’s
novel The Rainbow, Ursula Brangwen reviews her life in bewilderment.
Every phase seems so different yet always herself: “But what did it mean,
Ursula Brangwen? She did not know what she was. Only she was full of
rejection, of refusal. Always, always she was spitting out of her mouth the
ash and grit of disillusion, of falsity.”
For some characters change brings anger. In Samuel Beckett’s play
Krapp’s Last Tape, Krapp at age sixty-nine listens to recordings he’s made
over the decades. In his youth he believed in a lifelong identity. No more.
When he listens to his past voices, he knows they were once him, but he
sneers at them all and empathizes with none. Like a snake leaving his skin
behind, year after year he sloughs off his earlier selves until he’s left with a
bitter old man, the final Krapp.
Whether change happens fast or slow, inward or outward, by chance or
by will, all characters interpret change idiosyncratically—some accept,
some deny, some take no notice. In general, however, change elicits four
possible reactions:
1. A character may feel that change is merely cosmetic and she’ll be
back to her old self soon.
2. She may feel transformed into a better self.
3. She may view the past as the grave of the better woman she once
was and left behind.
4. She may discover her true self, the self she repressed since
childhood. Now, for better or worse, she can finally live who she
really is.
Change from an Author’s POV
What is your personal take on character change? How do your characters
react to it? Some writers believe in the permanence of identity, others in
deep change. Some reveal true character, others keep it a mystery; some arc
characters, others do not. In all cases, however, how an author connects a
character to her past shapes the course of her identity.
A healthy past, for example, strengthens the link between past and
present and keeps identity whole; a traumatic past weakens and fragments
it. Once damaged by abuse, the core self holds on to its sanity by clinging to
its memories, struggling to keep them alive and true. In this case, the past
may inflict itself on a character with various results. Here are four
possibilities:
1. Obsession: A trauma constantly reenters the mind with the sharp-
edged impact of its original experience, unshaded and unblunted by
time—PTSD, for example. Because a psychological scar never
forms, each remembrance tears open the same wound.
2. Repression: The conscious mind buries a painful memory in the
subconscious where it festers, fueling neuroses, warping identity.
3. Fantasy: If a trauma refuses to fade, the mind copes with its pain by
rewriting the past into alternative events it never lived but fantasizes
it did.
4. Balance: The mind courageously faces the truth with neither excess
nor distortion.
Does the cause and timing of change alter your character’s sense of self?
If change comes suddenly (a kitchen accident scalds her face and hands),
would physical disfigurement shred her identity? If change comes slowly
by deliberate choice (each day she poisons her husband just enough to make
him sick, as punishment for an insult, but over time she slowly decides he
doesn’t deserve to live), is she exposed for who she always was, or does a
changed self replace the old? Fine authors develop unique, idiosyncratic
approaches to character arcs.
Change from the Reader’s/Audience’s POV
At a story’s beginning, as exposition piles up, readers and audiences absorb
the surfaces, discovering who the characters seem to be. Twin curiosities
about character revelation and change hold interest to the last moments:
Who are these characters at heart? Who might they become?
Understanding the necessity to pace and build a reader’s or an
audience’s interest, the writer must time a story’s events to first conceal,
then reveal, the next change and ultimately complete a complex character.
4. Completion
Principle: The finest works of story art fulfill their protagonist’s need
and desire at the limits of human experience.
The terms need and desire may seem synonymous, but in my view, they
name two very different aspects of character, seen from two very different
points of view.
Desire: a character’s persistent purpose, her unreached goal. Throughout
a story’s telling, as the protagonist struggles to put her life back in balance,
she pursues her object of desire as far as her emotional and mental powers
can reach.
Need: an empty inner space, a potential that craves realization. At the
inciting incident, the writer recognizes an incompleteness in her
protagonist. She’s raw material for a superb character but lacking the
unique experience that would fulfill her unique potential. She, therefore,
needs to complete her humanity.
At the climax, the events she creates do just that. The story’s final
turning points put the protagonist’s emotional and mental capacities under
enormous pressure. With her last actions, she experiences herself to the
limit of her capacities as her author explores and expresses her core self at
her greatest emotional and mental depths. She thus becomes a completed
character—nothing left to reveal, nothing left to change.
Characters are never aware of their need. Only their author sees it; only
their author knows what’s latent in her character; only the author can
imagine her character in her most complete state.
Characters who do not change—action heroes, cartoon figures, comic
roles—have no need. They are unchanging yet fascinating. In Curb Your
Enthusiasm, Larry David is the same obsessive at the beginning of each
season as he is at the end. Episode after episode, he blindly pursues his
slavish mania for propriety, acting out his rigid, hysterically funny self. This
same pattern carries over, sequel after sequel, for the superheroes in
Marvel’s cinematic universe.
In character-driven genres (see Chapter Fourteen), however, stories open
with their principals, especially protagonists, internally incomplete. Their
lives to date have never called on them to use their capacities (intelligence,
morality, talent, willpower, emotional forces such as love and hate, even
courage and cunning) to their limit. But during the story’s clashes the
characters’ actions and reactions do that work. At climax, their instinctive
need to complete their humanity propels them to the end of the line, the
limit of human experience.
Examples of completed characters:
In Euripides’s play Medea, Princess Medea discovers that Jason, her
lover and father of their two boys, has abandoned her for another woman.
Medea not only poisons the other woman and the other woman’s father but,
to punish Jason, murders their children as well. She escapes with her sons’
bodies and buries them in hiding so Jason can never say a prayer over their
graves. With this revenge, Medea propels herself to a stunning extreme.
At the climax of Sophocles’s Oedipus Rex, Oedipus’s discovery that he
has unwittingly murdered his father and married his mother so horrifies him
that, raging with grief, he gouges out his eyes. This bolt of emotion numbs
all thought, leaving Oedipus in shock and unfinished.
Twenty-three years later, however, Socrates, at age ninety, completed his
character. In Oedipus at Colonus, Oedipus thinks to the heart of his
complicity and realizes that his pulsing pride and lack of self-awareness
shaped his fate. In short, he should have known better. Once he accepts his
guilt, he completes himself and dies in peace.
In Kim Ki-duk’s Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter… and Spring, an
apprentice Buddhist monk evolves from a cruel child to a lustful teenager to
a wife-murdering felon to a repentant convict to a Buddhist master—an arc
that ends in an inner gravity of genuine change, life-worn wisdom, and
completion of self.
In The Sea, The Sea, a novel by Iris Murdoch, Charles Arrowby, a
playwright and director, pursues his lifelong obsession with romance, never
understanding that his first, true, and only love is and always has been
himself. He finally exhausts his limited humanity, trapped in a cul-de-sac of
self-deception, completely blind to himself.
In Network by Paddy Chayefsky, adapted for stage by Lee Hall, TV
anchorman Howard Beale (Peter Finch on-screen, Bryan Cranston onstage),
makes headline news by declaring that modern life is bullshit. Beale’s
prime-time rants bring higher and higher ratings as he spirals deeper and
deeper into insanity. Eventually, his message about meaninglessness
becomes meaningless. As his ratings fall, the network has him assassinated
on camera. He dies, but not until all of his dimensions have been exposed
and exhausted.
When is Michael Corleone completed? At the end of The Godfather
Part II? Some think yes; I think not. Over the first two films, Michael
makes others suffer, but he doesn’t burn in real hell until The Godfather
Part III completes him.
In the finale of The Leftovers, the love story between Nora and Kevin
climaxes quietly as they hold hands over a kitchen table. For three seasons,
Nora’s cynicism keeps her from believing in Kevin, and Kevin’s intimacy
aversion keeps him from believing he deserves Nora. In between their
personal episodes, Nora travels sideways to a parallel universe in search of
her lost family, while Kevin dies and rises from the dead, again and again.
Once they realize that the only way to make sense of the senseless is to
believe in their love, they reach completion.

COMPLETING A CHARACTER
To sum up: For some characters, a fierce longing to make their mark on the
world, an unquenchable thirst to find purpose, drives them to complete
themselves. For others, an inner fear of fragmentation or a fervent curiosity
about their natures propels them. In both cases, the uncompleted construct
themselves inwardly by testing themselves outwardly. They take grave risks
to pursue something they value supremely but cannot control fully… even
when they reach it.2
The vast majority of characters, however, rarely question how deeply
they’ve gone into life, how much wider they might go, if they’ll ever
experience themselves to their fullest. Instead, the writer does that for them
by taking key measurements and asking key questions.
Writing to fulfill a character’s need to complete begins with the
recognition that we are all born with excess capacity, with far more thought
and feeling than life will ever demand, with powers we will never use. So
study your character in those days just before the story begins and ask:
Given my character at this point in her life, given the small percentage of
mental and emotional aptitude she’s used thus far and given the depths and
breadths she might someday touch, what does her humanity lack?
With that answer in hand, then ask: What does she need to complete
herself? What specific event, should it happen to her, would propel her
toward fulfillment of her promise? That turning point becomes your story’s
inciting incident.
After that ask: What events would carry her to the limits of her greatest
thoughts, her deepest being? What pressures, conflicts, choices, actions, and
reactions will take her humanity to its fullest? These answers become the
story you tell.
Once characters reach completion, they often reflect on the ironies that
scarred and yet fulfilled their humanity. We’ll close with their thoughts:
To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow, creeps in this petty pace
from day to day to the last syllable of recorded time…
—Macbeth in The Tragedy of Macbeth
Yes, she thought, laying down her brush in extreme fatigue, I have
had my vision.
—Lily in Virginia Woolf’s To the Lighthouse
And soon now we shall go out of the house and go into the
convulsion of the world, out of history into history and the awful
responsibility of Time.
–Jack Burden in Robert Penn Warren’s All the King’s Men
I’m thinking of aurochs and angels, the secret of durable pigments,
prophetic sonnets, the refuge of art. And this is the only immortality
you and I may share, my Lolita.
—Humbert Humbert in Vladimir Nabokov’s Lolita
Mediocracies everywhere—now and to come—I absolve you all.
Amen.
—Salieri in Peter Shaffer’s play Amadeus
It’s old light, and there’s not much of it. But it’s enough to see by.
—Elaine in Margaret Atwood’s Cat’s Eye
It seems that destiny has taken a hand.
—Rick Blaine in Casablanca
12

THE SYMBOLIC CHARACTER
No matter how completed or limited, all characters mean more than
themselves. Every figure you create is a metaphor for either a social identity
(mother, child, boss, employee) or an inner identity (good, evil, wise, naïve)
or a combination of the two. These roles form casts that can be divided into
two grand affinities: Realism and Symbolism. Some storytellers create casts
inspired by daily observation, and then set them to cope with everyday hell;
other writers, such as the creators of the DC Comics and Marvel universes,
work with an awareness of a symbolic dimension in their casts, costuming
them in imaginary characterizations.
For writers of Speculative Fiction—Fantasy, Sci-Fi, Horror, Superhero,
Supernatural, Magical Realism, and the many subgenres of each—the
symbol weighs more than its personification. For writers of conventional
Realism—dramas and comedies that center in the down-to-earth problems
of families, personal relationships, social institutions, legal systems, and
moral psychology—the personification counts for more than the symbol.
Symbols evolve involuntarily during the writing. No author, no matter
his talent, can deliberately create an all-new symbol from scratch. They are
timeless. You can only borrow them.1
Symbols arise in this way: As the mind sees, hears, or touches an object,
it instinctively asks, “What is this thing and why is it what it is?” Intellect
and imagination then peer beneath the surface, as it were, looking for
intrinsic structures and hidden causes; over time the insights they capture
become idealized into meaning-rich, power-compressing icons.
Examples: Inspired by curvatures found in nature, the mind pictured the
perfect geometric circle, and then elevated this abstraction into a symbol for
the Cycle of Life. Pregnant women exude the energy of replicating DNA
that our ancestors deified as the Earth Mother. The ocean’s turbulence
reminds sailors of an angry, punishing father who the Greeks then
reimagined as Poseidon. Edible plants and animals became the ritual of
meal taking that avant-garde chefs perfected into Haute Cuisine. This
movement from particular to general to ideal generates the luminous, often
fantastic images of symbolism. And where do writers find these visions? In
their dreams.
Dreaming in symbols is an evolutionary adaptation the pre–homo
sapiens psyche acquired hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, of years
ago. Its adaptive purpose is to protect sleep.
When you toss and turn at night, what pours through your brain? Racing
thoughts: those hopes and hungers, dreads and fears, passions and angers,
longings and lovings—the unresolved conflicts a weary mind cannot
control.
Hindus symbolize the human mind as the chattering monkey—the yak,
yak, yak, yak, yak, yak of thoughts running through the brain without pause
every minute of every hour of every day and night. This prattle keeps you
awake until the pineal gland secretes its melatonin and you drift into sleep.
Dreaming then compresses your streaming thoughts inside symbols, giving
intelligence a chance to rest and the body a chance to heal.
In the way a piston concentrates heat by reducing the volume inside a
cylinder, a symbol creates power by compacting multiple meanings into a
single image. A bearded figure, for example, dressed in robes, seated in a
great chair, looking down from above symbolizes the Father. This image
radiates complex ideas of judgment, wisdom, insight, and absolute
authority, along with fear of punishment, guilt over broken rules, gratitude
for protection, and adoration rooted in respect and dread. This grand mix of
meanings and emotions condenses inside one image.

SYMBOLIC CHARACTER SPECTRUM
The spectrum of Symbolism in character creation spans from brightest to
dimmest, beginning with the radiance of archetypes, followed by the glow
of allegories, then the muted shades of types, and finally the gray outlines
of stock characters.
Principle: Archetypes turn essences into characters
Humanity invented archetypes as instinctively as birds weave nests and
spiders spin webs. The symbolic power of an archetypal image is so
universal it can be endlessly varied in its details yet never lose its basic
pattern. No matter how an archetype’s veneer shifts from culture to culture,
from animation to live action, its presence commands fascination.
Archetypes inhabit four major components of storytelling: events,
settings, objects, roles:
1. Events such as the Sacred Birth, the Fall from Grace, the Battle
between Good and Evil.
2. Settings such as the Desert as ground for meditation, the Garden as
the miracle of fertility, the Castle as the seat of authority.
3. Objects such as Light as the symbol of Hope, Red as the color of
Passion, or the Heart as an icon for Love.
4. Roles such as Star-Crossed Lovers, the Outcast wandering in exile,
the Wizard waving a magic wand.
An archetypal character, like a stone sculpture, is the same inside as out.
The Earth Mother, for example, concentrates all aspects of motherhood—
giver of life, nurturer of innocence, forgiver of failings—into one rock-solid

identity. She has no subtext. She never pretends, never jokes, never thinks
an ironic thought. No hidden wishes contradict her pronouncements; no
secret feelings complicate her actions. She simply mothers.
Archetypes expand and contract. The Hag, the Crone, and the Wise
Woman are all variations of the Earth Mother. They may or may not have
magical or supernatural powers; they may or may not be disagreeable,
malicious, or malevolent; they may or may not be helpful. Compare the
Wicked Witch of the West with the Good Witch of the North in The Wizard
of Oz.
To a greater or lesser degree, a character, realistic or fantasized, stands in
for his ancient original. Although rooted in its archetype, once on the stage,
page, or screen, the character then diminishes the ideal because perfection
can only be imagined, not performed. To freshen these repetitions, the
writer must invent ingenious new traits of characterization.
Character archetypes are limited in number, but from Plato to Carl Jung
to today’s writers of Speculative Fiction no one agrees on what that number
is. Many are drawn from religion: God, Devil, Angel, Demon; some are
found in domestic life: Mother/Queen, Father/King, Child/Prince/Princess,
Servant; and others are inspired by social conflicts: the Hero, the Rebel,
Monsters (Villains), Tricksters (Clowns), and Helpers (Sage, Mentor,
Magician).
This last archetype, the Helper, has given us Gandalf in The Lord of the
Rings, Obi-Wan Kenobi in Star Wars, Merlin in many versions of the King
Arthur myth, and the Fairy Godmother in even more tellings. And, of
course, one role can combine two or more archetypes. Prospero, protagonist
of Shakespeare’s The Tempest, combines Wizard, Mentor, Ruler, Hero, and
Villain.
Because an archetypal character in Speculative Fiction is dimensionless,
he’s incapable of change: A superhero may resist the task, but in time he’ll
put on his cape and fly to the rescue. Therefore, the purer the archetype, the
less we care about his past or future, the less we imagine him outside his
immediate scenes, the less we discern his inner life, the more predictable
become his actions.
Because the complex character of Realism is dimensional and
changeable, the archetypal role and the myth he rode in on become less
important. Nonetheless, whether grounded or imaginary, a character
vibrates with greater intensity when he strikes an archetypal chord in the
subconscious mind of the reader or audience. If, on the other hand, the
reader/audience thinks the conscious thought, “Oh, he’s a symbol for…!,” if
they recognize a character as symbolic, the role flattens and its impact
drains away. Therefore, veil symbolism behind a never-seen-before
characterization. Fascinate the reader/audience with whom the character
seems to be, then quietly smuggle your archetype in below reader/audience
awareness and let it slip into their subconscious, where they will feel its
presence without knowing or caring why.
Principle: Allegories turn values into characters
Like an archetype, an allegorical character is also made from a single
substance but with less density. Whereas an archetype concentrates all
facets of a universal role (Hero, Mother, Mentor) into a single persona, an
allegorical character embodies only one facet, positive or negative. In the
moral universe of an allegorical setting, the cast personifies a pattern of
values. In the medieval morality play Everyman, for example, each
character personifies an aspect of human existence such as Knowledge,
Beauty, Strength, or Death.
In the alternative worlds of Jonathan Swift’s satire Gulliver’s Travels,
populations represent values such as Pettiness, Bureaucracy, Absurd
Science, and Obedience to Authority. William Golding set his novel Lord of
the Flies on an island where schoolboys collectively represent humanity,
while individually they symbolize values such as Democracy versus
Tyranny, Civility versus Savagery, and the Rational versus Irrational Mind.
Pixar’s Inside Out created an allegory inside its protagonist’s subconscious
mind by selecting five emotional values and writing them into the
characters Joy, Sadness, Anger, Fear, and Disgust.
Other examples: a lion as Wisdom in The Chronicles of Narnia and as
Cowardice in The Wizard of Oz; Lord Business as Corporate Tyranny in The
Lego Movie; an enormous stuffed whale as the Apocalypse in Laszlo
Krasznahorkai’s novel The Melancholy of Resistance; Tweedledum and
Tweedledee as Difference-Without-Difference in Alice Through the Looking
Glass. The allegorical cast of Steven Universe (Cartoon Network) take their
identities from gemstones.
Principle: Types turn a behavior into a character
Stories, especially those told in the genres of Realism, need not include an
archetypal or an allegorical character, but few can be cast without a type or
two.
A type is an animated adjective. Disney’s Snow White and the Seven
Dwarfs (adapting a Brothers Grimm fairy tale) turned seven adjectives into
the characters Sleepy, Bashful, Grumpy, Happy, Sneezy, Dopey, and Doc
(smart).
These nondimensional supporting roles act out a single trait of behavior
such as muddled, caring, blaming, fretting, artistic, shy, jealous, panicked,
cruel, or a single trait of temperament such as the indifferent clerk, the
talkative cabby, the unhappy little rich girl. All adjectives have an opposite
charge of value—happy versus miserable, daydreamy versus vigilant,
whining versus stoic—thus doubling the number of possible types.2
The first storytellers typed characters according to their social role: king,
queen, warrior, servant, herdsman, etc. But in the Nicomachean Ethics,
Aristotle began studying people by personality. He used adjectives such as
Excessively Vain, Great of Soul, Choleric, Good Tempered, Officious,
Contentious, and the like.
Aristotle’s student, Theophrastus, expanded this idea in his The Study of
the Character. He lists thirty brief, trenchant types, giving us an insightful
portrait of his time and humanity at large. All thirty, however, are
negatively toned: Superstitious, Lying, Nervous, Pretentious, Buffoonish,
Flattering, Boring, Bragging, Cowardly, and so on. He could have listed
correspondingly positive examples: Rational, Truthful, Calm, Modest,
Wise, Sincere, Entertaining, Discrete, Heroic, but I suspect negative types
were great fun for his readers. The comedy writer Menander cast many of
Theophrastus’s types in farces with titles such as The Grouch, The Peevish
Man, The Misogynist, and The Man Nobody Likes.
To elevate an extra into a type, simply give him a specific behavior. A
nondescript teenager steps out of the crowd and takes on a role when,
despite his best efforts to control himself, he constantly giggles with
embarrassment.
For example, three familiar types:
The Fanatic
The Fanatic may be a bored misfit, an untalented artist, or a chronic
discontent, but in all cases, he rejects his meaningless life and hates himself
for who he is not. In search of a new identity, he joins a movement that
gives him a new name, new uniform, and new vocabulary. So equipped, he
becomes a fanatic for the thing he loves and a hater of anything opposed to
it. At rock bottom, the angry fanatic projects his self-loathing onto
something or someone foreign.3
For thought-provoking examples, study Daniel Balint (Ryan Gosling) in
Henry Bean’s The Believer; Freddie Quell (Joaquin Phoenix) in Paul
Thomas Anderson’s film The Master; Syndrome (Jason Lee) in Brad Bird’s
film The Incredibles.
The Hipster
The Hipster is the opposite of the fanatic. He obsesses on the only thing he
loves: himself. He wears forgotten fashions (Hawaiian shirts), collects
antique things (portable record players), and takes up pointless hobbies
(home brewing). The hipster wants to be one of a kind, not with fresh ideas
of his own but from things no one else wants. To deflect mockery, he brags
about his failure to do anything meaningful. To preempt criticism, he adopts
an I’m-Only-Kidding smirk and lives ironically by hiding in public.
For hip examples, consider Jeff Bridges as The Big Lebowski, Jon Heder
as Napoleon Dynamite, and Oscar Isaac as the title character in Inside
Llewyn Davis.
The Cool
Cool describes an emotionally controlled, never eager or needy, detached,
and self-possessed type. He stands still, quiet and opaque, depriving the
reader/audience of insight. We sense that he has a secret past, but we never
know for sure. Gracefully skilled, he has found a unique way to make a
living, but only he knows what it is. A morally ambiguous realist, he lives
by his own code in an absurd world. He doesn’t need or want applause; he
knows his worth. We sense his depth but can only guess what’s behind his
eyes.4
Examples of cool: The enigmatic murderess Juliette Fontaine in I’ve
Loved You So Long suffers decades of silence for her secret; Amy in Gone
Girl impersonates many lethal selves, none of which are her; Clint
Eastwood played cool in films such as Play Misty for Me and High Plains
Drifter.
Principle: Stocks turn a job into a character
Types act out a behavior; stocks take a job. Fictional societies require
citizens playing social roles, defined primarily by their work.
People in the insecure gig economy—grad students waiting tables,
elderly greeters at Walmart, artists doing something other than their art—
cannot control their future. Because their jobs contradict what they want out
of life, they may become too interesting and dimensional to play stock
characters.
Instead, people in secure positions tend to work in a field small enough
that they can control its machinery: lawyers, house painters, doctors, golf
club pros, and the like. Job security may dull their inner creativity, as well
as their empathy for clients, homeowners, patients, and club members, but
professions such as these, placed around the principals, become stock roles.
The first stock characters were given props onstage so audiences could
identify them: Shepherds held a crook, ambassadors carried the caduceus,
kings a scepter, heroes a sword, old men a staff.
The Roman satirist Plautus used and reused farcical stocks: Rich Miser,
Clever Slave, Stupid Slave, Slave Dealer, Prostitute, Braggart Soldier, and
the hanger-on parasite that today we would call a Groupie.
As they carry out their tasks, stocks make no choices: Doctors deliver
bad news to families, lawyers explain provisions in a will, beggars beg.
Whether clichéd or freshly drawn, the great advantage of stock characters is
an instant recognition of purpose that lessens the need for exposition. The
reader/audience knows why a stock has entered a story and his task in the
telling. As they do their job, however, stocks needn’t be dull. A stock can
be worth his moment in the light if you give him a one-of-a-kind
characterization, the unique technique he uses to carry out his task.
Stock roles go in and out of fashion. Prosperity preachers replace hippie
gurus; Russian spies exit, Middle East terrorists enter; man-made monsters
are out, people with genetic mutations are in; space aliens are passé, zombie
hordes are hip.
Because stocks must act within their job and types within their type,
they make very few, if any, choices. For that reason, they constantly risk
becoming clichés. A cliché is a once-superb idea that’s been copied to death
and is now done without originality.
As Henry James pointed out, clichéd characters are used but never used
up. Are the old miser, young spendthrift, penny pincher, gambler, drunk,
and teetotaler never to appear again because they’ve been done before? Of
course not. In the hands of an imaginative writer, a stock can be
wonderfully idiosyncratic. Arnold Schwarzenegger’s assassin in The
Terminator is a menacing villain, type and stock, but the melding of
machine/human gave him a characterization like no other.
In fact, over recent decades, the origin stories of superheroes make them
seem more and more like super-stocks doing their job. Archetypal
twentieth-century creations, such as Thor, a Norse god; Wonder Woman, a
Greek goddess; and the godlike Superman are born super; while twenty-
first-century heroes turn super by accident (a radioactive bug bites Silk, a
random mutagen infects Ms. Marvel) or by scientists doing it themselves
(Iron Man builds his own supersuit). Galaxy Quest satirizes this trend when
stock actors become archetypes for stock aliens.
Principle: Stereotypes turn prejudice into character
Stereotyping begins with a fallacy: “All Xs are Y.” The wealthy, for
example, often stereotype the poor as lazy; the poor stereotype the too-rich
as cruel. Prejudices, for that reason, are worse than clichés. A cliché is a
very good idea someone had a very long time ago. Since then, writers have
drummed this invention into a cliché, but still it holds a truth. Stereotypes,
instead, distort the truth.
A stereotype models itself after an archetype but reduces grandeur to
bias: The Earth Mother becomes the Jewish mother, the Wise King becomes
the mean boss, the Warrior Hero becomes the street hustler, the Goddess
becomes the hooker, the Magician becomes the mad scientist.
So why do stereotypes persist? Because they’re easy to write. Realistic
characters demand work from the writer, reader, and audience.

REALISTIC VERSUS SYMBOLIC

CHARACTERS
Realism and Symbolism create characters at opposite ends of the cast
spectrum—one rooted in fact, the other in abstraction. In between these two
extremes run the mixtures and mergers of qualities that make possible every
character ever imagined. So, let’s separate these two poles to see what they
are and how they influence character creation.
The Symbolist tradition began in prehistoric myths. Mankind’s earliest
storytelling symbolized the forces of nature (sun, moon, lightning, thunder,
seas, mountains) into gods, demigods, and other supernatural beings. In
these myths, gods create the cosmos and, with it, human beings.
Paraphrased from epoch to epoch, culture to culture, myths travel mouth to
ear with slight loss of meaning because they are not literature. In myths,
words mean little, symbolic characters and actions everything.
The Realist tradition dates back to Homer’s vivid depictions of warrior
psychology and blood-spattered battles in the Iliad. Realism seeks to
portray life as lived, unclouded by false beliefs or sentimental
beautifications. Its straightforward dramatizations avoid symbolic dream
fiction to emphasize hard-edged thought fiction—characters living in the
as-is rather than the as-wished-for.
The key differences between realistic and symbolic characters number at
least ten:
1. Truth: Factuality Versus Wish Fulfillment
Realism grapples with a factual world in which wishes almost never come
true; whereas the symbolic genres of speculative fiction—myths and
fantasies, both ancient and modern—put wish fulfillment into action. The
heroes and superheroes of today, with or without magical powers, live in a
strictly moral universe where Good always triumphs over Evil, love
conquers all, and death does not end life.
Other symbolic genres, such as fables and legends, treat wishes as dark
and dangerous, so they tell cautionary tales that teach moral lessons. “The
Fox and the Grapes” by Aesop, “Hansel and Gretel” by the Brothers
Grimm, and the legend of the House of Atreus are three classic examples.
Modern fables warn of a dystopian future: George Orwell’s Nineteen
Eighty-Four, Margaret Atwood’s The Handmaid’s Tale, Naomi Alderman’s
The Power.
2. True Character: Complex Psychology Versus Imposing Personality
Symbolic tellings incite conflicts between characters rather than
contradictions within characters. As a result, symbolic characters have
remarkable, imposing personalities, while realistic characters develop
complex psychologies. Compare Batman (aka Bruce Wayne) to Saul
Goodman (aka Jimmy McGill).
3. Level of Conflict: Outer Versus Inner
Symbolic characters take action against external antagonistic social and
physical forces, while realistic characters often battle self-doubt, self-
deception, self-criticism, and other such inner confusions and invisible
demons.
4. Complexity: Solid Versus Dimensional
Like the archetypes that inspire them, modern mythical characters have

traits but no dimensions, desires but no contradictions, a text but no subtext.
They are one-piece symbols, inside and out.
Multidimensional realistic characters, on the other hand, string dynamic
contradictions between their public, personal, private, and hidden selves.
5. Detail: Scarcity Versus Density
The Symbolist writer of fables, legends, and myths focuses on the essential.
He simplifies the density of reality by avoiding meticulous traits of
characterization.
The Realist author, on the other hand, gathers telling details that enrich
and specify his characters. Compare, for example, the smooth outlines of
the animated family in The Incredibles with the painstakingly particularized
family in Six Feet Under.
6. Comprehension: Hard Versus Easy
Realism calls for concentration and perception. A character seems real in
proportion to how much we consider his total self. The more contradictory
yet consistent, the more changeable yet unified, the more unpredictable yet
credible, the more specific yet mysterious the role, the more real,
fascinating, and intriguing he becomes. He makes us work to understand
him but rewards us with insight once we do. Consider Vicomte de Valmont
(Dangerous Liaisons), Thomas Sutpen (Absalom, Absalom!), and Jimmy
McGill (Better Call Saul).
The symbolic characters of myth, legend, and fable are instantly and
easily understood. The more generalized, predictable, and text-bound the
role, the less surprising, less intriguing, and less real he becomes. Consider
Albus Dumbledore, Mad Max, and Superman.
7. Worldview: Skeptical Versus Sentimental
Realism encourages characters treated with tough-minded sentiment;
Symbolism often sweetens its roles with sentimentality.
Sentiment is a feeling that flows when a creditable motivation compels a
powerful action: a parent risking everything for a child, as in playwright
Henrik Ibsen’s Ghosts and Alvin Sargent’s screenplay for Ordinary People.
Sentimentality, however, manipulates emotion by using phony causes to
trigger false effects. The forced happy ending, for example, is a device as
antique as Hans Christian Andersen’s “The Little Mermaid” and as
yesterday as Steven Spielberg’s War of the Worlds.
8. Endings: Irony Versus Simplicity
The writers of Realism grapple with life’s constant duality: The steps you
take to achieve something are exactly what’s necessary to make sure you
never get it, while the steps you take to avoid something take you directly to
it. Whether climaxing in grief or joy, Realism turns a double effect: Positive
endings demand great sacrifice, while tragedies bring insight and wisdom.
Reality is relentlessly ironic and characters suffer accordingly.
With the exception of authors like Philip K. Dick, myth, fable, and
legend resist irony; they cast characters who act out straight, pure, and
positive stories.
9. Character Dynamics: Flexible Versus Rigid
Realism reveals the truths hidden in its characters and then often flexes
their inner natures with change. Symbolic roles possess one rigid quality
through and through, and therefore have nothing to reveal or change.
Realism is skeptical; myths wishful. Test myths against reality, and their
archetypes are exposed for the wish fulfillments they always were.
In the early twentieth century, psychologist Carl Jung based theories
about the collective unconscious on archetypes drawn from myths.
Expanding on Jung, Joseph Campbell concocted a monomyth popularly
known as “the hero’s journey,” hoping to replace Christianity with his
personal brand of spiritualism. Hollywood actionsmiths hammered
Campbell’s pseudomyth about the hero’s quest into a template to mass-
produce summer hits.5
10. Social Dynamics: Flexible Versus Rigid
The class structure in Symbolist genres tends to cast a ruler at the top,
peasants at the bottom, the rest somewhere in between. Realism moves
power through its cast with fluidity, even if the telling is set in a monarchy
or dictatorship.
CASE STUDY: GAME OF THRONES
David Benioff and D. B. Weiss, adapting George R. R. Martin’s A Song of
Ice and Fire to the longform screen, brought harsh realism to high fantasy.
Between the black-and-white outlines of Symbolism, they drew characters
in every possible shade of gray. They merged the autocracy of myth with
the freedom of fiction to create a vast cast of 160 roles, representing all
degrees of Realism and Symbolism plus all possible points on the political
compass.
On the extreme Right, the tyrannical Cersei of House Lannister,
Protector of the Seven Kingdoms. On the progressive Left, the graceful
Daenerys of House Targaryen, Mother of Dragons.
Cersei embodies retrogressive, incestuous, matriarch, monarchical
despotism. Temperamentally, she is pro-feudalism and anti-change.
Daenerys embodies the future-leaning, humanistic spirit of justice and
progress. Temperamentally, she’s anti-feudalism and pro-change. Daenerys
denies myth; Cersei lives myth.
Within this polarized world, the writers array the meritocracy of the
Night’s Watch, the equalitarianism of the Unsullied, the fanaticism of the
Sparrows, and the democracy of councils in which equals cast votes to
make decisions. Death, however, has no politics, so when the Night King
and his horde of White Walkers invade, the tension between Symbolism and
Realism fades into the question of who lives and who dies.
HOW TO MAKE THE OLD NEW
You hope to invent characters unlike any ever seen, but for thousands of
years, storytellers have created, re-created, and recycled characters by the
millions… literally. You write in this tradition, and therefore your
character’s core identity will echo an archetype, an allegory, a type, or a
stock. Your task is to create within the known (otherwise no one will know
how to respond to your work) and yet make your characters unique, fresh,
and unlike any ever met before. Try one of these four paths:
1. Within the genres of Speculative Fiction, create plausible
motivations for implausible actions.
2. Within the genres of Realism, create characters who live off-center
lives and see people and actions in an off-center way.
3. In either subset, give characters radical experiences that shock old
beliefs into the new.
4. In either subset, add a sense of immediacy by writing in-character.
In prose, write from the POV of a character who has lived these
events in the past. On-screen or onstage, take the POV of a character
living them in the now.
13

THE RADICAL CHARACTER
The Realism/Nonrealism/Radicalism Triangle
Fiction’s conflicting treatments of reality create a triangle of character
possibilities: In one corner, Realism gives characters the powers they have
in ordinary life; in a second corner, Nonrealism gives them powers far
beyond the ordinary; at the third corner, Radicalism warps the powers found
in the other two. All three extremes meet and overlap within this triangle,
creating an infinite variety of characters.

REALISM: CONVENTIONAL CHARACTERS

IN CONVENTIONAL WORLDS
The literary movement known as Realism began two centuries ago in
reaction to the operatic excesses of Romanticism. Realism works from the
ground up, but in truth, its style of offhanded underplay is as artificial as the
high-style overplay it replaced.
Realist writers gather close observations of people and behavior, stir
these inside the imagination, filter this concoction through the latticework
of the mind, and finally crystallize it into a character who lives in a world
that echoes ours. She has a unified self, moral balance, rational perceptions
of reality, interactions with other characters, willful pursuits of desire,
capacity to choose and act with purpose, and flexibility to change. This
protagonist, surrounded by a cast of similar roles, acts out a story that by
cultural conventions readers and audiences accept as everyday reality. You
have seen and read these works all your life.

NONREALISM: CONVENTIONAL

CHARACTERS IN UNCONVENTIONAL

WORLDS
Nonrealism places the conventional characters of Realism inside
extrarealities powered by forces such as the supernatural in Pirates of the
Caribbean; the magical in Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone; the
coincidental in 1Q84; the metaphorical in Babe; the paranormal in The
Dead Zone; the transnormal in Six Characters in Search of an Author; an
opaque bureaucracy in The Trial; dream power in Alice’s Adventures in
Wonderland; futuristic science in Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?;
time travel in Somewhere in Time; time warps in Looper.
Some of these extended realities are populated by characters who sing
(La Traviata), dance (The Sleeping Beauty), or sing and dance (The Book of
Mormon). Nonrealism often eliminates the “fourth wall” to let characters
talk to theatre audiences (Hair), film audiences (Wayne’s World), or
television audiences (Fleabag).
Nonrealism grows out of either conscious fantasies during the day or
subconscious dreams at night. Once these imaginary settings and casts
inspire a story, they play as grand metaphors for idealized worlds,
expressing humanity’s wish fulfillments.
The fictional worlds of Realism and Nonrealism vary extremely, but
nonetheless, they share two things in common: (1) No matter how bizarre or
real a setting may seem, once folded into a fiction, it develops rules of
causality, of how and why things happen, patterns that operate like the laws
of physics to shape what can and cannot occur. (2) Characters who live in
both real and unreal worlds believe in them. From the cast’s point of view,
everything they see and hear seems as real as pain.
They may at first, like Phil Connors in Groundhog Day, doubt their
world and test its laws, but in time a fictional reality becomes their reality
and they behave in a more or less normal way. This is the nature of
storytelling. The world of Homer’s Odyssey contains gods and monsters,
but Odysseus deals with them as any hero would.
Conventional characters exist in social, cultural, and physical settings
that are either Realism’s imitations of reality or Nonrealism’s imagined
reinventions of reality. The behaviors and motivations of conventional
characters demand credibility; the meanings of their stories are ultimately
clear and expressed with emotional impact; their dialogue strives to be
instantly understood; their tellings bring freshly observed details and
insights into human nature.
The note to take here is that the fully expressed character built around a
unified dimensionality is standard in both Realism and Nonrealism. These
characters inhabit the hits and best sellers of page, stage, and screen.
Therefore, think carefully about the tastes of your readers and audiences
and which reality they want: Realism or Nonrealism. Because in all
probability, they do not want Radicalism.

RADICALISM: UNCONVENTIONAL

CHARACTERS IN UNCONVENTIONAL

WORLDS
The more a writer loses faith in meaning, the more she feels a pull toward
Radicalism.
From the very first, philosophers assumed that life had meaning and that
finding that meaning is mankind’s chief goal. This pursuit wound its way
through the centuries, but then by the nineteenth century, Nietzsche,
Kierkegaard, and other voices warned of a rising tide of meaninglessness.
This trend deepened as psychoanalysis, led by Freud, Jung, and Adler,
discovered disunities within the self and the near impossibility of knowing
your true identity, let alone finding a meaning to guide it. Two world wars
and a dozen genocides later, nihilism found its voice in postmodern works
of theatre, cinema, and prose of the absurd that revolutionized storytelling
and character.
Radicalism finds both the outer and inner life meaningless, so it reverses
everything: instead of continuity, fragmentation; instead of clarity,
distortion; instead of emotional immersion, intellectual exertion; instead of
involvement, distance; instead of progression, repetition.
Unconventionality is Radicalism’s convention. Whatever’s orthodox, the
Radicalist does the opposite, but, ironically, that doesn’t set her free. As
Martin Heidegger pointed out: “Opposition is invariably comprised of a
decisive, and often even perilous, dependence.”1
Radicalism is to character what Cubism is to portraiture. The writer, as if
painting a Picasso-esque portrait, exaggerates, shatters, shrinks, distorts,
and rearranges selves, yet somehow the reader/audience still sees a
character.
Radical settings are highly symbolic, but their rules for causality are
radically inconsistent. In Jean-Luc Godard’s film Weekend, anything can
happen for no reason; in Samuel Beckett’s play Waiting for Godot, nothing
happens, again, for no reason. These reimaginings, needless to say,
demanded new and very radical characters.
Radical characters have little relationship to anything beyond
themselves—not god or society, not family or lovers. They are either
isolated and static (Tom Stoppard’s play Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are
Dead) or mobbed and frantic (Marlon James’s novel A Brief History of
Seven Killings). Their dialogue often degenerates into babble (David
Lynch’s film Inland Empire).
The medium for expressing radical characters with relative ease is prose.
The novelist, in first or third person, can reach into the mind of a character
and emulate her splintered, skipping-stone thoughts, sketching out her
wildly subjective, often paranoid anxieties and impressions, her instant
impulses, fragmented desires, and fractured personality. This technique was
foundational to everything Samuel Beckett wrote for page and stage.
In White Noise, novelist Don DeLillo created characters whose identities
are not just in doubt, but absolutely uncertain. Thomas Pynchon’s Gravity’s
Rainbow swirls four hundred characters around Tyrone Slothrop, who may
or may not be anything that he, other characters, or even the author say he
is.
For the playwright and screenwriter, expressing radical characters
becomes a bit more difficult because the physical presence of an actor gives
a role a sense of solidity.
In Happy Days, Samuel Beckett worked against the actor effect by
burying his only two characters, Winnie and Willie, up to their necks in dirt
and debris.
In Holy Motors, Cinema of the Absurd filmmaker Leos Carax has his
protagonist, Oscar, perform nine different impersonations, ranging from an
old female beggar to a Chinese gangster to the husband and father of
chimpanzees.
CREATING A RADICAL CHARACTER
To radicalize a character, simply empty out her conventional aspects. Below
are nine possible deletions that lead characters toward the extreme:
1. Subtract Self-Awareness
The self-aware dramatic character can step back from the struggle and think
the thought, “You know, this could get me into real trouble,” and then,
despite the threat, go on. But when you subtract self-awareness, dramatic
characters turn into comic obsessives.
The comic mind is ruled by a blind obsession—single-minded as a
stone, persistent as the sea, repetitious as rain. To create a farce, the comedy
writer locks the character into her fixation, then exploits it at every
opportunity:
In A Fish Called Wanda, Archie Leach obsessively fears embarrassment,
yet stumbles into one red-faced humiliation after another.
In the Pink Panther films, Inspector Clouseau obsesses on perfection as
a detective, yet blunders through his investigations, one pratfall after
another.
In Curb Your Enthusiasm, Larry David obsesses on proper social
behavior, and yet finds himself surrounded with people who constantly
break his petty rules.
In Bridesmaids, Annie Walker obsesses on her one and only friendship,
and yet ruins the relationship at every turn.
Conventional comic obsessives, like the above, have a commonsense
interest or two that rounds out their natures. But not the radical character.
Radicals push beyond obsession into the absurd limits of monomania. To
radicalize a comic character, take away everything except her obsession,
then trap her inside it and never let her out:
In The Maids, Jean Genet traps the maids in their sadomasochistic
games.
In Exit the King, Eugene Ionesco traps Berenger in his fear of death.
In Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead, Tom Stoppard traps
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern in Hamlet’s story.
In A Behanding in Spokane, Martin McDonagh traps Carmichael in an
endless search for his missing hand.
2. Subtract Depth
The opposite of a full, complex, and revealed character is a role that’s
emptied out—a character whose humanity shrinks into an inner void,
putting her just a step or two away from the radical.
In Falling Down, Ebbe Roe Smith peels away William Foster’s (Michael
Douglas) sanity.
In Capote, Dan Futterman extracts Truman Capote’s (Philip Seymour
Hoffman) morality.
In The Imitation Game, Graham Moore amputates Alan Turing’s
(Benedict Cumberbatch) core self.
Despair swallows the humanity of all three of these men, leading their
lives to the brink of absurdity.
3. Subtract Change
Complex, multidimensional protagonists undergo arcs of change; flat
characters do not. Flat characters contract into themselves, eliminating their
ties to other characters.
In genres of Realism, flat characters are revealed but incapable of
change—for example, Jude and Tess in Thomas Hardy’s novels Jude the
Obscure and Tess of the d’Urbervilles. Their only change is a downward
slide from hopeful to hopeless.2
In genres of non-Realism, heroes and villains, with or without
superpowers, are also flat. Characters in action-filled, speculative fictions
change the world but never themselves. They personify Good or Evil and
obey ancient storytelling traditions by staying either good or evil until they
die.
In both non-Realism and Realism, unchanged characters suggest that the
possibility of change, no matter how remote, exists. If Hardy had allowed
Jude to become the classical scholar of his dreams, Jude’s arc to fulfillment
would be profound and moving. If Bruce Wayne got fed up with the
public’s lack of respect for Batman and decided to use his skills to build an
evil empire, the change would be shocking and yet fascinating. I would
watch that sequel.
So if flat characters in conventional genres change, their change
surprises, yet seems credible and meaningful. On the other hand, if a radical
character living in a radical world were to change from flat to complex, the
switch would seem false.
In Waiting for Godot, two aimless characters, Vladimir and Estragon,
sum up the flatness of their natures with the refrain: “Nothing to be done.”
But if one were to turn to the other and say, “Enough waiting. I don’t think
Godot will ever show up. Let’s go find jobs and make something of our
lives,” and off they went, excited by the chance to change, Samuel
Beckett’s existential masterpiece would collapse into silliness.3
In novelist Will Self’s trilogy of Umbrella, Shark, and Phone, flat
characters fragment into five different points of view. Shards of thought
express variations of dissociative identity disorder, drug-induced
hallucination, and autism-spectrum discord. If the author unified these
pieces into whole characters, they would corrupt his wild creation.
4. Subtract Identity
Prior to the twentieth century, authors wove their characters’ identities from
the cultural threads that encircled them: gender, class, family, age, religion,
nationality, education, profession, language, race, taste in art, and the like.
When a character said, “I am a—,” what followed were nouns drawn from
her immediate world. This ancient practice continues today, reenforced by
identity politics.
The Modernist movement, however, reversed that pattern. It turned
away from conflicts between characters to tell tales located in the inner life
and the search for an ever-lasting private truth. Modernist characters turn
their back on the world, hoping to find a core self waiting quietly within,
surrounded by infinite freedom of thought and the beauty of creativity.
By the end of the century, however, postmodernists found that the inner
life offers no such refuge. The outer and inner worlds are just two versions
of hell. In Samuel Beckett’s novel The Unnamable, the protagonist declares
that he’s “shut the door, at home to no one,” including himself. A character
homeless within himself suffers derealization or depersonalization or both.
Derealization is the sudden perception of the world as unreal;
depersonalization is the sudden perception of yourself as unreal.
Derealization is the side effect of despair, often magnified by drugs and
alcohol. Depersonalization is the side effect of physical and psychological
trauma or extreme loneliness. A prisoner condemned to solitary
confinement over time inevitably loses his identity. When finally taken out
in a straitjacket, his first question (if he can still speak) is “Who am I?”
Derealization strips a character of the power to empathize, to see the
humanity in others; depersonalization severs self-empathy, a character’s
power to feel her own humanity.
How many different ways can a character lose self-empathy and with it,
her identity? Here’s a brief list:
(A) Loss of an Identity Source
A character draws both characterization and true character from her
surrounding culture. If an outside power destroys the sources of her identity,
she vanishes with them.
In Wide Sargasso Sea by Jean Rhys, Antoinette Cosway, a
Creole/Jamaican heiress, marries an Englishman. He takes her from her
island home to his, then insults her race and poisons their marriage with
adultery. Locked in an attic and stripped of all sense of self, she goes mad.
In Things Fall Apart by Chinua Achebe, a Nigerian tribal champion
fights against English colonists and missionaries, but his tribe converts to
Christianity and turns against him. Stripped of his ancestral identity, he
commits suicide.
(B) Rejection of an Identity Source
If a character hates her ancestry and so turns against her religion, ethnicity,
gender, or any other personality-shaping influence, she alters, if not utterly
erases, her identity.
In Look Back in Anger by John Osborne, Jimmy Porter feels heroic
energies pulsing through him, but now that the British Empire has
collapsed, he realizes that his chance for an epic life is lost. He’s an
ordinary working man who will never be part of a great enterprise, never
live the courageous identity he craves.
In More Happy Than Not by Adam Silvera, teenager Aaron Soto hires a
psycho-technology company to erase his gay identity. The company
removes a few memories, but gayness isn’t a memory, it’s genetic.
(C) Trauma
Damage caused by ordeals or genetic abnormalities such as schizophrenia
can shatter a character’s identity.
In The Bourne Identity, Jason Bourne suffers traumatic amnesia and
goes in search of his identity.
In The Three Faces of Eve and Alias Grace, doppelgängers and multiple
personalities give the protagonist different identities, none of them hers.
In Blue Jasmine, Jasmine Francis revenges her husband’s adultery by
betraying him to the FBI for embezzlement. Soon penniless, her identity
crumples as she suffers a pathological, delusional breakdown.
(D) Identity Theft
An impostor slowly steals a character’s identity until no one believes that
she is who she says she is.
In Single White Female, Hedy Carlson suffers a soulless, deep-seated
emptiness. To find a fulfilling self, she imitates her roommate and then
steals her identity.
(E) Obsession
When fanatics obsess, they take actions that seem out of character.
Shocked, they step back from what they’ve done and excuse it with “I
wasn’t myself.” In fact, their choice under pressure revealed exactly who
they are.
In Lust, Caution, the Japanese army occupies Shanghai in 1942. As part
of an assassination plot, a beautiful young rebel seduces the head of the
secret police, but their passion becomes her sexual obsession. When given a
chance to kill, she suddenly shocks herself by choosing not to end his life
but to save it.
5. Subtract Purpose
Many radical characters turn their backs on the world. They flee the turmoil
of relationships by withdrawing into the mental life, thinking that there they
will enjoy freedom, creativity, and quiet self-awareness. Instead, their
mediations meander pointlessly; they find creativity pretentious and self-
knowledge painful. When involuntary memories pop up from the past, they
either deny their truth or draw a blank. Stuck between the inner and outer
life, they try to flee both and live in neither. When radical characters crave
company, it’s to escape their acute anxieties about modern afflictions,
existential minutiae, and meaningless inner boredom. They are purposeless.
In Beckett’s Krapp’s Last Tape, Krapp’s doctor has warned him that
bananas are bad for his health. So Krapp peels a banana, sticks it in his
mouth, then stands for minutes on end, staring into space, unable or willing
to bite down, a banana protruding from his face.4
Radical characters are purposeless and thus trapped: trapped in an
incomplete play (Six Characters in Search of an Author), in mindless
repetition (The Chairs), in maniacal politics (The Arsonists), by an
unknown menace (The Birthday Party), in conformity (Rhinoceros), by
death (Exit the King), in Shakespeare’s play (Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
Are Dead), in bureaucracy (The Trial), in a police state (Pillowman), in
mundanity (The Flick), in the Amazon jungle (The Encounter), in a
neighbor’s backyard (Escaped Alone). Like an improv actor on Whose Line
Is It Anyway?, these characters are stuck onstage and cannot escape their
playwright’s premise.
For many twenty-first-century writers, political absurdity has blurred
their sense of purpose. Gridlock inside an artist often paralyzes the
creatures she creates—static characters who feel that nothing redeems life
—not love, not art, not knowledge, not God, and certainly not sex. Thus, the
perfect metaphor for today’s loss of purpose is the zombie. Like zombies,
radical characters long to live no life at all. Were it possible, they would
inhabit a zombie zone of nothing.
6. Subtract Unity
A complex character is one person who acts in two directions: She loves
and hates, tells truth and lies. These cohesive contradictions unify her,
whereas the unstable shards of a radical role fragment the character.
In today’s participatory theatre, for example, when a cast interacts with
its audience, their roles splinter into character and performer: Brute Force,
Sleep No More, 66 Minutes in Damascus.
In Isabel Waidner’s novel Gaudy Bauble, objects become characters and
then compound themselves: A face printed on a sweatshirt multiplies into
an army of transsexuals.
7. Subtract Maturity
The daily task of the mature mind is to mediate between the world around
her and the instincts inside her, balancing these two hostile powers and
negotiating an inner peace.5
The radical character is an eternal child who surrenders to the world
(obedience) or to her impulses (violence) or to both at once (the violent
savage who obeys orders).
In Haruki Murakami’s The Wind-up Bird Chronicle, when Toru, the
novel’s childlike protagonist, isn’t searching for his cat, or his wife, he’s
ruminating at the bottom of a well.
The risqué send-ups staged by Madison, Wisconsin’s Broom Street
Theater, such as Oklahomo! and The Ballerina and the Economist, show
little interest in maturity.
The same is true of screenplays by Broom Street alumnus Charlie
Kaufman. Human Nature, for example, features a psychologist who teaches
table manners to mice.
8. Subtract Conscience
An evil character commits unregretted acts of brutality because she has no
conscience to restrain her. Characters of conscienceless evil motivate power
struggles in a wide variety of genres such as Crime, War, and
Action/Adventure, as well as Political and Family Dramas. When stakes are
high, people know how to vacate their conscience. It’s commonplace.
Radical evil takes brutality to another level: As the Marquis de Sade
explains in Philosophy in the Bedroom: “Through cruelty one rises to
heights of superhuman awareness and sensitivity to new modes of being
that cannot be reached any other way.”
The core psychology of radical evil is Sadism: the belief that the
common objectives of torture (information and confession) distract from the
unutterable pleasure and transcendent purity of the torturer’s experience.
Radical evil seeks grotesque pleasure.
Acts of radical evil nauseate into disgust. Disgust is a gut reaction to rot,
to foul-tasting, foul-smelling feces, gore, pulp, puke. Physical disgust reacts
against these rank animal spillages to protect the body from poisons; social
disgust reacts against moral rot to protect the soul from evil. Profoundly
evil characters turn your stomach… literally.
In Lord of the Rings, Lord Sauron is not radically evil. He is, in fact,
rather elegant. He fights to maintain power, but he’s not sadistic, so he
provokes no disgust.
In contrast, O’Brien, the Party enforcer in George Orwell’s dystopian
Nineteen Eighty-Four, locks a wire enclosure around Winston Smith’s head,
then fills the surrounding cage with ravenous rats scrabbling to eat the
man’s face. O’Brien, content in his pleasures, watches as this horrific
psychic torture rips through his victim. O’Brien is radical evil.
9. Subtract Belief
Here’s a useful question to ask of any role you create, conventional or
radical: How crazy is my character? Sane in a sane world? Insane in a sane
world? Sane in an insane world? Or insane in an insane world? The first
three possibilities encompass characters found in Realism and non-Realism;
radical characters inhabit the fourth.
Patricia Highsmith’s Tom Ripley falls into the second category. The
world around him is sane, but he is not. He’s a psycho-sociopath who kills
when necessary. To Ripley, necessary means getting what he wants by
paying for it with someone else’s life.
Lewis Carroll’s Alice fits the third case. She’s sane, but the world
around her is not. This well-bred, snobby little girl needs to make sense out
of an insane world, or she’ll never find her way home.
What makes Ripley and Alice conventional characters is their trust that
the world makes sense. A radical character lacks any such belief. Radical
characters cannot find meaning in either their outer or their inner lives, and
they certainly do not believe in anything spiritual.
Belief is a personal interpretation of reality. Religious belief trusts that a
god created reality and gave it moral imperatives. Patriotic belief trusts in
the righteous and tradition-bound reality of a nation-state. Scientific belief
trusts that mathematical laws of causality hold reality together. Romantic
belief trusts that love is the ultimate value. With beliefs such as these,
conventional characters find purpose in their lives.
Radical characters, having no belief to buoy them, despair in the face of
absurdity.
In Perfume, a novel by Patrick Suskind, Jean-Baptiste finds people,
himself included, disgusting and meaningless. Void of belief, he makes the
ultimate escape from absurdity by enticing a starving mob into ripping him
apart and cannibalizing him in the street.

THE FUTURE: UNCONVENTIONAL

CHARACTERS IN CONVENTIONAL

WORLDS
The postmodern avant-garde died decades ago and was replaced by a retro-
garde. Postpostmodernist theatre, films, and novels of today simply recycle
the twentieth century, exhausting its every minimal or maximal device ad
nauseam. As a Beckett character might say, “Nothing that hasn’t been
done.” So, instead of copying the past, the leading edge of twenty-first-
century storytelling satirizes the present.
In classical satire, clear-minded narrators ridiculed lunatic societies.
Jonathan Swift perfected this technique in Gulliver’s Travels. Seventy years
ago, Samuel Beckett ridiculed reality itself with radical characters in absurd
settings. Today’s writers reverse both Swift and Beckett. They place radical
characters in a conventional setting, and then draw us into empathy despite
our better natures.
The Black Comedy protagonists of The White Tiger by Aravind Adiga,
A Behanding in Spokane by Martin McDonagh, Birdman by Alejandro
Inarritu, The Sellout by Paul Beatty, and All Grown Up by Jami Attenberg
are criminal or lunatic or criminally lunatic.
In fact, the utmost radical characters now star in their own longform
series: the anxiety disordered and clinically depressed protagonist of Mr.
Robot; the charming cannibal of Santa Clarita Diet; the psychotic, drug
experimenters in Maniac; the darkly obsessed comedians in I’m Dying Up
Here; Villanelle, the lovable serial killer in Killing Eve; Barry, the
actor/assassin in Barry; and Jimmy McGill, the criminal criminal lawyer in
Better Call Saul.
As writers push the limits of empathy, they ask their readers and
audiences to identify with more and more crazed and dangerous characters.
The answer to the question “How dark is too dark for the contemporary
reader/audience?” seems further and further away.

PART 3

THE CHARACTER UNIVERSE
The next three chapters look at character from three different angles: the
casts in various types of stories, the actions characters take within a story,
and character from the point of view of readers and audiences.
14

CHARACTER IN GENRE
Nothing in the art of storytelling compels a writer to do anything in a rule-
driven way. The genres impose no dictates; they simply follow traditional,
conventional patterns. Like trends in music or painting, readers and
audiences come to know their favorite genres, expecting and enjoying these
designs. They naturally want to reexperience them but each time with a
satisfying difference.
Here, for example, are three sets of event expectations:
1. The Crime Story: (a) A crime will be committed. (b) The injustice
will be discovered. (c) The protagonist will seek to identify,
apprehend, and punish the criminal. (d) The criminal will fight
against his discovery and punishment. (e) The protagonist may or
may not restore justice.
2. The Love Story: (a) The lovers will meet. (b) They will fall in love.
(c) Powerful forces will oppose their love. (d) The lovers will
combat these forces. (e) Their love will triumph or fail.
3. The Education Plot: (a) The protagonist will lead an unfulfilling life.
(b) His sense of emptiness and meaninglessness will weigh on him,
but he will not know what to do. (c) He will meet a “teacher
character.” (d) The teacher will guide or inspire him. (e) The
protagonist will develop a new understanding that gives his life
meaning and purpose.
The ways courts define crime, the ways families encourage or oppose
romance, the ways intellectuals define meaning evolve over time. When a
society’s beliefs undergo change, genre conventions develop innovative
ways to express these evolving ideas. The writer, sensitive to the changing
world around him, keeps, cuts, or reinvents these conventions. But any
innovation must anticipate the public’s expectations. Because readers and
audiences love their genres, bending or breaking conventions must add
newer, clearer meaning and emotion to the telling.
Genre conventions, properly understood, do not limit expression but
make it possible. Love Stories can’t be told if lovers never meet. Crime
Stories can’t be told if crimes go undiscovered. An Education Plot can’t be
told if a protagonist leads a happy, satisfying life. Without conventions, the
story arts would not exist.
The genres divide into two basic classes:
1. Primary genres that create content: characters, events, values, and
emotions.
2. Presentational genres that express content: comic or dramatic, gritty
or poetic, factual or fantasied, and the like.
THE ORIGIN OF PRIMARY GENRES
The primary genres evolved in reaction to life’s major levels of conflict:
Physical, Social, Personal, Private.
In reaction to physical conflicts, storytellers first told origin myths of
how gods created the skies, the earth, the seas, and humanity. Once belief in
the supernatural gave reality a sense of order, storytellers moved from gods
to heroes and invented the Action/Adventure Genre. These fictions acted
out life-and-death battles against storms, floods, lightning, and voracious
beasts.
But the most lethal threat to anyone’s life comes from other human
beings, so storytellers developed additional genres based on social,
domestic, and intimate levels of conflict. These conflicts generated arcs of
outer change. Last, struggles within the mind gave rise to arcs of character
change.
Few stories are so pure that they engage their characters on only one
level of conflict. In most tellings, levels mix, merge, and multiply, but let’s
separate the levels of conflict to see how they generate primary genres.
Self Versus Nature
The Action/Adventure Genre: The first action tales pit heroes against the
powers of nature personified as gods: Odysseus battles a hurricane driven
by the breath of Poseidon; Lot flees Yahweh’s volcanic fire and brimstone;
Gilgamesh slaughters the Bull of Heaven, and thousands more.
The Horror Genre: The Greeks exaggerated nature into monsters such as
the Hydra, Chimera, Minotaur, Cyclops, the vampire Mormo, the werewolf
Lycaon, and the gorgon Medusa—each a nightmare of imagination.
Self Versus Society
The War Genre: Warfare has raged ever since the first man picked up the
first club, but Homer launched this genre with the Iliad’s telling of the
Trojan War and Achilles in battle.
The Political Genre: When Athenians instituted democracy around 500
BC, political power struggles immediately became subject matter for
tragedies such as Antigone as well as farces such as The Wasps.
The Crime Genre: Crime detection as a genre took root with Edgar
Allan Poe’s master investigator C. Auguste Dupin in “The Murders in the
Rue Morgue.” The genre captured the reading world when Arthur Conan
Doyle gave it Sherlock Holmes.
The Modern Epic: Spurred by the rise and fall of twentieth-century
dictators, writers revamped the ancient quest epic into a fight for freedom
that pits a lone hero against an all-powerful tyrant. This wide-ranging
underdog/overdog genre spans both realism and nonrealism: Lord of the
Rings, Nineteen Eighty-Four, Spartacus, Star Wars, The Handmaid’s Tale,
Braveheart, Game of Thrones.
Social Drama: Political upheavals in the nineteenth century exposed
social problems such as poverty, corruption, and gender inequality. This
genre identifies these conflicts and dramatizes their possible cures.
Novelists like Charles Dickens and playwrights like Henrik Ibsen spent
their literary lives exposing social injustices. Today, Social Drama is a
magnet for Oscars.
Self Versus Intimates
At the level of intimate relationships two genres act out conflicts between
families and lovers:
Domestic Drama: From Medea to King Lear to Wally Lamb’s novel I
Know This Much Is True to Christopher Lloyd’s sitcom Modern Family,
family stories, dramatic and comic, are an ancient and unending genre.
They dramatize the loyalties and betrayals that bind or shred families.
The Love Story: The idealization of romantic love began as an effort to
civilize male rage. In the late Middle Ages, an epidemic of rape swept
through Europe, and so in reaction, troubadours, the pop culture of their
day, told stories and sang songs praising the virtues of chaste, chivalric
love. Since then, waves of Romanticism followed by tides of anti-
Romanticism have buoyed and swamped Western culture and the love
stories it tells.
A subgenre of the Love Story, known as the Buddy Story, dramatizes the
intimacies of friendship rather than romantic love. Examples: My Brilliant
Friend by Elena Ferrante, A Coupla White Chicks Sitting Around Talking by
playwright John Ford Noonan, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid,
Thelma and Louise.
Self Versus Self
Stories of deep psychological complexity arc a character’s inner nature
from who he is at the inciting incident to who he becomes by the climax.
But what exactly can a writer change within a character? One of three
qualities: morality, mentality, humanity.
Morality: How does a protagonist treat other people?
Responses to life’s temptations either strengthen or corrupt a character’s
moral nature, changing him for better or worse, making him more honest or
lying, more kind or cruel, more giving or selfish.
Mentality: How does a protagonist think and feel about reality and his
life in it?
The genetic imperative against suicide makes us wait for death, but
beyond that pause, existence has no intrinsic meaning. Faced with the
relentlessness of time and randomness of luck, each complex character must
answer a deeply private question: Does my existence have a purpose
beyond survival? Is my life meaningful or absurd? In stories told at the
level of an existential conflict, a protagonist either discovers a positive
reason for living or surrenders to meaninglessness.
Humanity: How does a character’s human potential change? To a fuller
or lesser self?
The most subtly complex stories engage and change a character’s
humanity. They raise the most difficult questions a writer ever asks: Does
my character evolve or devolve over time? If so, what need or lacking in the
character’s humanity does the telling fulfill or fail to fulfill? Does he grow
or hollow out? Answers to these questions will come as you carry out two
major tasks:
(1) At the beginning of a story, a character’s overall humanity could be
profound or shallow depending on an intricate weave of qualities such as
wisdom versus ignorance, compassion versus indifference, generosity
versus selfishness, emotional calm versus impulsiveness, and the like. In the
planning stages of a story, imagine the relative maturity and fullness of your
character’s inner world, and then measure its propensity for positive or
negative change.
(2) Once you have a grip on the depth and breadth of your character,
reveal his nature at the inciting incident and the events that follow, arcing it
over an expanse of story.
You can execute these two tasks in only one way: Put your character
under pressure, then, as he pursues his desire, give him choices of action
that reveal who he is now and set up who he will become. At the story’s
climax, the character will either heighten or diminish his humanity,
becoming either a fuller or lesser human being.
THE SIXTEEN PRIMARY GENRES
Primary genres cause critical change in a character’s life on either the outer
levels or in the inner life. As a result, primary genres are divided into two
basic sets: Plots of Fortune and Plots of Character.
To cause and express change, primary genres contain four core
conventions: core value, core event, core emotion, core cast. The next two
sections examine the sixteen primary genres—ten of fortune, six of
character—with their quartets of key conventions:
The Ten Plots of Fortune
Plots of Fortune change the outer conditions of a character’s life for better
or worse. His fortunes could swing up or down between winning and
losing, poverty and riches, loneliness and togetherness, and the like.
Genres under Plots of Fortune have numerous subgenres, some a dozen
or more: Action, for example, has sixteen; Crime, fourteen; Love, six. This
list outlines only the mother form without her children.
1. The Action Genre
Core Value: Life Versus Death
Core Event: Hero at the Mercy of the Villain
Core Emotion: Excitement
Core Cast: Hero, Villain, Victim
These three characters form a triangle of moral archetypes. The essential
trait of the hero is altruism; of the villain, narcissism; of the victim,
vulnerability.
Heroes change the world but not themselves. Their shades of power run
from superhero (Superman) to action hero (Jason Bourne) to everyman hero
(Captain Phillips). Superheroes employ extrahuman powers to battle
extrahuman villains and monsters; action heroes test their strengths against
conventional villains; everyday heroes have no special skills, except the
willpower to suffer pain and risk out of necessity.
Villains range from supervillains to master criminals to street gangs.
They use violence without hesitation because they’re indifferent to the
humanity of their victims; the hero has to be provoked to violence because
he cannot be indifferent to anyone’s humanity, including the villain’s. To the
villain, heroes and victims are just objects—a means to an end; to the hero,
no one, not even the villain, is an object.
Unlike criminals in crime stories, the action villain cannot be bought off.
He has a project that defines his life, a perfect crime that’s more important
than himself. This scheme is both opaque and mysterious (otherwise it’s
just lawbreaking) and extremely disruptive (otherwise ordinary cops could
handle it).
The vulnerable victim wears many faces: a child, a lover, a family, a
small town, a nation, the planet Earth, and the universe. They are essential
to the telling. Without victims, heroes cannot be heroic, nor villains
villainous.
In a genre as ubiquitous as Action, repetition wears archetypes to the
nub. This pattern, for example, is older than the Bible: the hero’s
miraculous but humble birth, an early proof of his superhuman power, his
rapid rise to prominence, his betrayal by a trusted companion, his triumph
over evil, his sin of pride and fall from grace, his atonement, self-sacrifice,
and moral triumph.
Recent heroes have added idiosyncratic variations to this template:
Spock, Ellen Ripley, James Bond, Harry Potter, Wall-E, Gracie Hart, and
Daenerys Targaryen.
2. The Horror Genre
Core Value: Survival Versus Damnation
Core Event: Hero at the Mercy of the Villain
Core Emotion: Terror
Core Cast: Monster, Victim
The Horror Genre eliminates the Action hero and focuses on the
monster-victim conflict. The Action hero inspires excitement; the Horror
monster provokes terror. Action keeps the reader and audience at a safe
emotional distance; Horror assaults the subconscious. Think of Action as a
force, Horror as an invasion.
Action villains obey the laws of nature; monsters either break these laws
with a supernatural power or bend them with power of an uncanny
magnitude.
The Action villain is a narcissist; the Horror monster is a sadist. The
villain possesses the spirit of greed; the fiend possesses the spirit of evil.
Wealth, power, and fame will satisfy a villain, but the monster inflicts pain
and prolongs suffering because the agony of his victims gives him sublime
pleasure.
3. The Crime Genre
Core Value: Justice Versus Injustice
Core Event: Hero at the Mercy of the Villain
Core Emotion: Suspense
Core Cast: Antihero, Villain, Victim
The twenty-first-century Crime Genre, for the most part, has abandoned
the action hero for the antihero. Like the Action hero, the antihero never
arcs, but unlike the Action hero, the antihero’s core self is layered and
complex.
An antihero is a moral realist capable of both virtue and vice. The
difference is that he sees it in himself and so hardens on the outside to
protect a better self within. He appears too cool to feel anything, but at heart
he has a passion for justice. An antihero carries a villainous version of
himself deep within as he struggles to obey his private code and keep his
morality intact. He knows that a life spent coping with crime will slowly
deaden his soul, but head down, he plows ahead.
4. The Love Genre
Core Value: Committed Versus Lost Love
Core Event: An Act of Love
Core Emotion: Longing for Love
Core Cast: Lovers
If love doesn’t hurt, it isn’t real. The only act of genuine love is an act of
anonymous self-sacrifice—a deed taken in silence, without hope of
recognition or reward, that costs the lover but benefits the beloved. The rest,
no matter how deeply felt, are simply gestures of affection. The great test in
writing a love story is the creation of an original act of love that is unique to
your characters and deeply moving to your reader/audience.
5. The Domestic Genre
Core Value: Unity Versus Breakup
Core Event: A Family Unites or Splinters
Core Emotion: Longing for Togetherness
Core Cast: A Family
The cast of a Domestic Story may or may not be blood relatives, but no
matter how the group was formed, the members mutually support, protect,
and commit, even if they don’t love each other.
6. The War Genre
Core Value: Victory Versus Defeat
Core Event: The Decisive Battle
Core Emotion: Harrowing Fear
Core Cast: Soldier, Enemy
A successful military strategy hinges on the courage to carry it out. This
genre calls for characters who think and act in the face of fear.
7. The Social Genre
Core Value: Problem Versus Solution
Core Event: Recognition of a Crisis
Core Emotion: Moral Indignation
Core Cast: Social Leader, Victim
The Social Genre identifies social problems such as poverty, racism,
child abuse, or addiction, and then dramatizes the need for a cure.
8. The Political Genre
Core Value: Powerful Versus Powerless
Core Event: Power Won or Lost
Core Emotion: Hunger for Victory
Core Cast: Two Combative Parties
In a battle for partisan power, the official beliefs of the characters are
virtually irrelevant. In political warfare, the weapon of mass destruction is
scandal: bribes, backstabbings, and, above all, secret, illicit sex.
9. The Modern Epic Genre
Core Value: Tyranny Versus Freedom
Core Event: An Act of Rebellion
Core Emotion: Moral Outrage
Core Cast: Tyrant/Rebel
In nonrealistic epics, such as Lord of the Rings, Star Wars, The Princess
Bride, and Game of Thrones, tyrants never survive, but heroes do. In
realistic epics, such as Spartacus, Nineteen Eighty-Four, Braveheart, and
Lord of the Flies, tyrants always survive; heroes never do.
10. The Enterprise Genre
Core Value: Success/Failure
Core Event: A Professional Loss
Core Emotion: Rooting for Success
Core Cast: Protagonist/Social Institution
In this genre, the ambitious—scientists, athletes, entrepreneurs, and the
like—strive to achieve. This genre finds a natural home in autobiographies
such as Chris Gardner’s The Pursuit of Happyness and Unstoppable by
Maria Sharapova.
The Six Plots of Character
Plots of Character change the inner nature of a character from better to
worse or the reverse in terms of his morality, mentality, or humanity.
As set out in Chapter Twelve, stock characters come into a story to carry
out their prescribed tasks and no more. They are exactly who they seem to
be. Multidimensional characters, on the other hand, conceal their inner
selves behind social masks. Choice by choice, action by action, their true
natures reveal themselves but do not change. These roles populate the casts
of the ten plots of fortune listed above, while characters undergoing true
psychological change inhabit the half-dozen story forms that follow.
These six genres express the dynamic triumphs and tragedies of the
ever-changing human spirit. As we noted, to arc a character from one kind
of person to another, a story can change one of just three inner qualities:
Morality, Mentality, Humanity.
Morality Plots
Every society maintains particular judicial and personal codes that tell its
people how to treat each other. These codes span various spectra from legal
to illegal, good to evil, right to wrong, kind to cruel, and the like. Religions
regulate even more detailed codes of moral and immoral behavior. Despite
best efforts, however, the golden rule is more bent than kept.
Every author designs a unique morality for each story he tells, which is a
subset of his personal code, which is a subset of his culture’s code, which is
a subset of the Golden Rule ideal imagined by the public as they read or
watch. The author works with the protagonist’s behavior toward other
people, guided by values such as Ethical/Unethical, Valuable/Worthless,
Right/Wrong, Kind/Cruel, Truthful/Liar, Compassionate/Indifferent,
Loving/Hateful, Charitable/Selfish, Good/Evil. Stories in the Redemption
and Degeneration Genres dramatize the morality of their protagonists as it
arcs along a path from either negative to positive or positive to negative.
1. The Redemption Plot
Core Value: Morality Versus Immorality
Core Event: An Act of Redeeming Morality
Core Emotion: Hope for Change
Core Cast: Protagonist
What people do, they become. The Redemption Plot arcs a protagonist’s
morality from negative to positive. When a protagonist’s treatment of other
human beings changes from cruel to kind, deceptive to truthful, unethical to
ethical, his moral action at the climax redeems his previous immoral deeds.
In Ernest Lehman’s screenplay for The Sweet Smell of Success, a failing
hustler meets a ruthless mentor who offers him a lucrative career… if he
sells out. Ultimately, the hustler’s nagging conscience defeats his ambition.
He restores his better self… but at a price.
In Fyodor Dostoevsky’s Crime and Punishment, Raskolnikov, a
delusional intellectual, murders an old woman, thinking that this deed will
somehow make him exceptional, even heroic. The cruel absurdity of his
action eats at him until he confesses and finally begs forgiveness.
In David Mamet’s screenplay for The Verdict, attorney Frank Galvin
redeems his prior corruption when he defeats an even more corrupt law
firm.
In Annie Mumolo and Kristen Wiig’s screenplay for Bridesmaids, Annie
Walker’s selfish jealousy arcs into a rewarding friendship.
2. The Degeneration Plot
Core Value: Immorality Versus Morality
Core Event: Act of Irreversible Immorality
Core Emotion: Dread of Loss
Core Cast: Protagonist
When a character’s treatment of other human beings changes from
ethical to unethical, good to evil, moral to immoral, he corrupts his core
self. This movement from positive to negative morality arcs the
Degeneration Plot.
In Anthony Minghella’s screen adaptation of the Patricia Highsmith
novel The Talented Mr. Ripley, Tom Ripley arcs from petty con man to
identity thief to multimurderer.
In The White Tiger by Aravind Adiga, Balram Halwai arcs from
hardworking servant to corrupt entrepreneur, using murder, theft, bribery,
and the assassination of his own family to get what he wants.
In Hand to God by playwright Robert Askins, Jason (aka Tyrone) arcs
from innocent teenager to surrogate Satan.
In Better Call Saul, created by Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould, Jimmy
McGill (aka Saul Goodman) arcs from an attorney with criminal clients to a
criminal with gangster clients.
Mentality Plots
A character’s mentality contains faculties such as knowledge of the people,
history, and the world around him, plus all of his personal and professional
experiences, awake and dreaming, together with his IQ, EQ, and willpower.
The sum total of these elements creates a character’s sense of reality and
how he sees himself in it. His underlying attitudes shape his choices of
action, plus the reactions he expects and his feelings about the results. At
rock bottom, his mentality determines whether he finds life meaningful or
meaningless.
In the Education and Disillusionment Plots, the writer works with a
character’s view of reality as it affects his attitude toward life, expressed in
values such as Meaningful/Meaningless, Proud/Meek, Educated/Ignorant,
Theistic/Atheistic, Optimistic/Pessimistic, Trusting/Distrustful,
Contented/Depressed, Self-respect/Self-disgust.
3. The Education Plot
Core Value: Meaning Versus Nihilism
Core Event: Discovery of Meaning
Core Emotion: Longing for Meaning
Core Cast: Protagonist, Teacher
Today’s crisis of meaninglessness drives ever-rising rates of suicide and
addiction. Human beings want lives that matter, significance beyond
survival. When meaning evaporates, they despair; when they find meaning,
they live with purpose.
The Education Plot expresses this change from negative to positive by
moving the protagonist from someone who finds life meaningless to
someone who learns what’s worth living for. The Education Plot takes its
name from its emphasis on learning experiences that lead to an inner
discovery.
Hamlet is the ultimate Education Plot. Two inner selves pull Hamlet in
opposite directions: His princely self longs to revenge the murder of his
father, while his core self asks, “What’s the point?” One person can’t move
in two directions at once, so Hamlet wars within. Because he hates the state
of the world, he alienates everyone; because he’s lost within, he alienates
himself. Between the two, life seems pointless. But ultimately, he finds
meaning in a surrender to fate: “There’s a special providence in the fall of a
sparrow… the readiness is all.”
In Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury, Guy Montag turns against his
illiterate ignorance and embraces the beauty of written knowledge.
In The Sympathizer by Viet Thanh Nguyen, the protagonist comes to
realize that revolutions invariably betray the revolutionaries who created
them. Even so, a true revolutionary lives for only one thing: the next
revolution.
In Lost in Translation by Sofia Coppola, two self-critical characters arc
from meaningless isolation to a meaningful embrace of love.
In Up in the Air by Jason Reitman and Sheldon Turner, the protagonist’s
story begins and ends on an empty note, but in between he arcs from self-
deceived to self-aware.
4. The Disillusionment Plot
Core Value: Meaning Versus Nihilism
Core Event: Loss of Belief
Core Emotion: Dread of Meaninglessness
Core Cast: Protagonist
Stories in the Disillusionment Plot move their protagonist from
optimism to fatalism, from someone who finds life meaningful to someone
who can no longer imagine his future.
In The House of Mirth by Edith Wharton, Lily Bart traps herself in a
contradiction: She hates the snobbery and vacuity of elite society but, in
truth, cannot live without the comforts of wealth. Her dilemma ends with an
overdose of sleeping pills.
In The Fall by Albert Camus, Jean-Baptiste falls from self-admiration to
self-disgust to self-destruction as he realizes that his life is false—always
has been, always will be.
In American Pastoral by Philip Roth, Seymour Levov realizes that no
one lives truthfully—not even himself within himself. The good life,
therefore, is an impossibility.
In Graham Moore’s screenplay for The Imitation Game, legal authorities
force computer genius and war hero Alan Turing to undergo chemical
castration because he’s homosexual. Realizing that society will never let
him live an honest life, Turing commits suicide.
In Dan Futterman’s screenplay for Capote, Truman Capote, intent on
writing a best seller, spends seven years cultivating and then exploiting the
trust of two imprisoned murderers. Disillusioned by his cynical
exploitations, he never writes another novel.
Humanity Plots
The most profound stories are always, to some degree, Humanity Plots.
While Morality and Mentality Plots change a protagonist’s empathies and
beliefs, a Humanity plot arcs his total being. A character’s humanity
includes not only his moral principles and mental attitudes but his maturity,
sexuality, spirituality, courage, creativity, willpower, judgment, and
wisdom, plus his sensitivity to beauty, insight into others, insight into
himself, and much more.
From the point of view of readers and audiences, Humanity Plots hook
curiosity with the most thought-provoking concern of all: Will the
protagonist become a fuller or lesser human being? Will he enrich or
deplete his core self? Will his humanity evolve or devolve?
Every complex character you create contains a unique set of qualities.
You lay the foundation for an arc of humanity by first listing and measuring
your character’s capacities. Before your protagonist enters the story,
establish his state of need by asking: “What are his principal qualities? How
far has he evolved to this point in his life? What is his potential for change?
How much more could he evolve and grow? What events would lift him to
the fullest experience of his humanity? If the story arcs to the negative, how
far could he devolve and decay? What turning points would strip his
humanity to the bone?” The story you tell answers these questions.
In the Evolution and Devolution Plots the writer calls on values such as
Child/Adult, Dependent/Independent, Addicted/Sober, Impulsive/Prudent,
Weak/Strong, Callow/Sophisticated, Self-indulgent/Self-controlled,
Normal/Neurotic, Sane/Psychotic.
5. The Evolution Plot
Core Value: Full Versus Emptied Humanity
Core Event: A Triumph of the Core Self
Core Emotion: Longing for Fulfillment
Core Cast: Protagonist
Works in the Evolution Plot arc a character’s humanity from negative to
positive, giving him a chance to live life at its fullest. One of the most
popular of these tellings is the coming-of-age-story, a revolution from
immaturity to maturity that elevates the protagonist from child to adult.
In A Separate Peace, a novel by John Knowles, a teenager, Gene,
harbors a childish jealousy against his best friend, the gracefully athletic
and poised Finny. When Finny dies, Gene’s childish self dies with him. The
protagonist loses his friend but finds maturity.
Films such as Stand by Me, Big, and Beasts of the Southern Wild evolve
juveniles into grown-ups. Other maturation arcs begin with a character who
looks grown up but is at heart a juvenile.
In Steve Kloves’s screenplay for The Fabulous Baker Boys, pianist Jack
Baker lazes through life like an unkempt kid. But once he decides to
abandon the ease of pop and face the rigors of jazz, he finds his inner adult.
In The Hustler, a novel by Walter Tevis, Fast Eddie Felson, a pool
hustler enjoying a delayed adolescence, eventually finds his manhood—but
only after his selfish indifference to the woman he loves triggers her
suicide.
As we saw in Chapter Eleven, evolution to the limits of humanity often
swivels around an epiphany, a sudden “I get it!” In that moment the
protagonist lives life to its limit as he undergoes his most profound
experience of head and heart, of emotion and perception, of thought and
feeling. A price, however, must be paid for this peak experience, and that
often costs life itself.
In the final scene of Ibsen’s Hedda Gabler, Hedda realizes that she will
always have to live through men, that these men will always have power
over her, and therefore she will never achieve greatness on her own. At the
pinnacle of awareness and in the depths of rage, she puts a gun to her head.
Dark ironies such as Oedipus Rex, Othello, Anna Karenina, The Iceman
Cometh, and The Killing of a Sacred Deer climax in the moment the
protagonist experiences life lived to an absolute limit and with their death
or resignation, the fulfillment of their humanity.
6. The Devolution Plot
Core Value: Full Versus Lost Humanity
Core Event: Surrender of the Core Self
Core Emotion: Dread of Emptiness
Core Cast: Protagonist
Works in the Devolution Plot arc a character from positive to negative,
stripping his humanity with every choice and action he takes. In one of its
most frequent tellings, addiction devolves the protagonist.
In Hubert Selby’s novel Requiem for a Dream, four protagonists shred
their humanity with drugs, as does Jackie Peyton in Nurse Jackie, and Edith
Piaf in La Vie En Rose. In The Lost Weekend and The Days of Wine and
Roses, characters destroy themselves with alcohol. In Madame Bovary and
Anna Karenina, addiction to romance kills the soul.
In Ebbe Roe Smith’s screenplay for Falling Down, William Foster, a
weapons engineer, loses his family and his job. As he walks across Los
Angeles, laying waste to the cityscape along the way, his humanity
progressively disintegrates.
In Woody Allen’s Blue Jasmine, guilt, lies, poverty, and rejection
combine to devolve Jasmine’s sanity.
Sudden change in a character often comes off as temporary, superficial,
and easy to reverse, but when cause and effect link over time, change seems
permanent and inevitable. Notice that most of the previous examples of
both evolution and devolution span or at least imply years, if not decades,
of gathering change.
THE TEN PRESENTATIONAL GENRES
To bring the primary genres to life and express their characters vividly,
storytellers developed various techniques of performance, illustration, point
of view, style, and tone. These methods shape the ten presentational genres:
1. Comedy: Any principal genre can inspire laughter. Dramas in the
principal genres easily flip into comedies, even spin off into farce.
2. Musical: Any principal genre can be sung and danced.
3. Science Fiction: Any genre can be set in a futuristic world or an
alternate reality.
4. History: Any genre can take place in a previous time period.
5. Fantasy: Any genre can happen in a timeless world or magical
reality.
6. Documentary: Any genre can be told factually.
7. Animation: Any genre can be animated.
8. Autobiography: Any genre can dramatize a memoir’s protagonist.
9. Biography: Any Plot of Fortune can place a biographical subject’s
outer life at its center. The author then decides whether or not to use
a Plot of Character to portray an inner life only he can imagine. Don
DeLillo’s Libra, about Lee Harvey Oswald, and Joyce Carol Oates’s
Blonde, about Marilyn Monroe, arc their subjects through the
Devolution Plot.
10. High Art: High Art is the presentational style common to the art
film, experimental theatre, and avant-pop fiction. These works begin
with a principal genre but then run its characters through fragmented
happenings told from unreliable points of view in discontinuous
time frames. To these macro distortions they often add micro
executions of mixed media, hyperimages, and graphic symbols.

GENRE COMBINATIONS
When a work’s central plot and subplot(s) combine various genres,
character complexity expands with a natural ease. In the classic example, a
Crime Story central plot spliced with a Love Story subplot instinctively
pulls the inner life of a detective protagonist toward the tough qualities
called for in police work and then the tender touches needed in romance.
Genres can either mix or merge.
Mixed genres crosscut two or more story lines. The plots’
counterpointing themes enrich the work’s overall meaning and at the same
time add facets and dimensions to their characters.
For example: David Mitchell’s novel Cloud Atlas intercuts six stories in
six different genres taking place in six different times and settings:
Education Plot, Disillusionment Plot, Evolution Plot, Political Drama, and
two subgenres of Crime: the Thriller and the Prison Drama. The principal
characters in all six echo one another from epoch to epoch, story to story.
As the author said in an interview on BBC Radio 4: “The characters,
except one, are reincarnations of the same soul in different bodies
throughout the novel identified by a birthmark…[ Cloud Atlas’s] theme is
predacity—the way individuals prey on individuals, groups on groups,
nations on nations, tribes on tribes…[I] reincarnate that theme in a different

context.”
Mixed designs multiply the number of genre conventions the writer
must master and the reader/audience will expect, and at the same time, they
expand the work’s cast in number and variety. A cast as massive as Cloud
Atlas’s puts tremendous creative demands on its author. Some readers use
margin notes to keep track of the complicated population.
Merged genres combine plotlines so that one story takes place inside of
another to motivate and complicate it.
Two examples:
The overall genre of Russell Harbaugh’s Love After Love is Domestic
Drama, a Plot of Fortune. Members of an already troubled family suffer
their father’s death, raising the major dramatic question: Will the widow
and her two sons unify as a family or fall apart?
The answer to that question, however, depends on the arcs of three
stories running inside each principal character: A Love Story for the widow
and two Evolution Plots tracing her sons’ struggles to reach adulthood. In
other words, the three inner story lines motivate the climax of the Domestic
Drama: The family stays together because their humanities evolve and they
find love after love.
Quentin Tarantino’s Once Upon a Time in… Hollywood both merges and
mixes genres. A Buddy Plot between actor Rick Dalton (Leonardo
DiCaprio) and stuntman Cliff Booth (Brad Pitt) merges with an Evolution
Plot arcing within Dalton. Dalton struggles to find the inner strength to
overcome his alcoholism and save his acting career, but his codependent
friendship with Booth blocks his path to self-control. The conflict between
these two story lines raises the major dramatic question: Will these men
sacrifice their relationship for the sake of Dalton’s future or stay drinking
pals to the bitter end? Meanwhile, a life-and-death Crime Story crosscuts
with these two merged stories, climaxing all three with a home invasion by
the infamous Manson gang.
When genres merge, the course of one story determines the outcome of
another. This blending reduces the size of the cast (one character plays
protagonist in two genres) as well as the number of conventions (one
inciting incident launches two genres as the lovers meet during a bank
robbery).
15

CHARACTER IN ACTION
Every character has her self-stories. These are the three tales she tells
herself as she looks back on her past identities, as she reflects on her present
state, and as she looks forward to her future self. Her future story becomes
the most important because it shapes and governs the course of your work.
Somewhere in her childhood, while immersed in her upbringing, her
schooling, her culture, she dreamed up a wished-for life with an ideal
identity, an ideal beloved, an ideal career, an ideal way of life—the way
things should happen to her. Over time, she constantly rewrote and
rationalized her past to give herself reasons for how she became who she’s
become. When she asks, “Who am I? How did I get here? And how will I
fit into this world?” her self-story gives her answers that pull her many
selves into a unity.1
Put into action, her self-story gives her a one-of-a-kind modus operandi
(to borrow a term from the Crime Genre), a unique way of doing things.
A character’s MO goes beyond the collection of characterization traits—
voice, gesture, dress, mood—that create her personality. It gives her the
pattern of tactics that she habitually uses to pursue her object of desire, to
live out her ideal future. Her one-of-a-kind MO guides her efforts to cope
with both positive and negative eventualities—how she intends to go about
getting what she wants, plus how she plans to escape the things she fears.
Over a lifetime, a character may abandon the MO of her youth, but more
often than not, she simply reshapes it under the pressures of family, work,
and, of course, love.2
When your story’s inciting incident throws your protagonist’s life out of
balance, she will pursue rebalance by trying to impose her self-story on the
forces that oppose her will and desire. In other words, she will do things her
way, in her unique MO. So, to put your character into action, first conjure
her self-story, then imagine her future as she wants it to be and focus her
MO through it.
Character MOs tend to cluster around various themes. To give you a
sense of what’s possible, I’ve listed three of the most common premises
with examples taken from plays, series, novels, and films. I give each an
additional twist that might propel the story forward.

HOLLYWOOD THEMES
Many people try to live daily life as if it were a movie. They find their
personal goal in their favorite story; they then identify with its characters
and model their real-life MOs on fictional behaviors. Writers recycle these
behaviors back into stories, and as a result, certain MOs drive both fact and
fiction, real people and make-believe characters. Below are just five:
The Mystery Lover
Because the protagonist finds everyday life boring, her MO seeks a
mysterious, enigmatic lover.
Examples: Scottie Ferguson in Alfred Hitchcock’s Vertigo; Jerry in Paul
Theroux’s novel A Dead Hand; Arthur in the Susan Hill–Stephen Mallatratt
play The Woman in Black; Dale Cooper in David Lynch’s TV series Twin
Peaks.
Twist: It turns out that the mystery figure has nothing to hide or say. To
attract lovers, she simply feigns inscrutability.
The Alien Adventurer
The protagonist feels estranged from normal society, so she creates an
outlandish version of herself and seeks others who are as weird or even
weirder than herself—the more alien, the more exciting.
Examples: The unnamed narrator of Pam Houston’s short stories in
Cowboys Are My Weakness; Martin in Edward Albee’s play The Goat, or
Who is Sylvia?; Lars in Nancy Oliver’s screenplay for Lars and the Real
Girl; Cosmo Kramer in the Larry David–Jerry Seinfeld sitcom Seinfeld.
Twist: We often assume that eccentricity hides a fascinating personality,
but suppose the protagonist discovers that her partner’s tattoos, scarring,
and pastel-streaked hair are just a futile tactic to seem interesting.
The Fairy Tale
The protagonist plays a fairy-tale prince or princess.
Examples: Mrs. Hardwicke-Moore in Tennessee Williams’s play The
Lady of Larkspur Lotion; Claire in Ronald Moore’s series Outlander; Xiao
in Tong Hua’s novel Bu Bu Jing Xin; Buttercup in William Goldman’s
screenplay for The Princess Bride.
Twist: The fairy-tale world becomes grotesque as the prince transforms
into a knave and the princess into a witch.
The Documentary
A common MO among intellectuals is the compulsive analysis of personal
relationships that turns dating into a Discovery Channel documentary.
Similar to the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle, the act of observation
affects passion, reducing it to a sex manual.
Examples: Alvy Singer in Woody Allen’s Annie Hall; Alexander in
Philip Roth’s novel Portnoy’s Complaint; the four co-protagonists of Darren
Star’s series Sex and the City; Laura and Danny in David Eldridge’s play
Beginning.
Twist: As they dissect their feelings and behaviors, flirtation morphs into
a science project, a fetish they find more titillating than pornography.
The XXX-Rated Flick
Sadomasochists take pleasure in both brutality and humiliation. These
characters seek to inflict or suffer abuse so they can either degrade their
victim or be degraded or both at once.
Examples: Solange and Clair in Jean Genet’s play The Maids; Severin in
Leopold von Sacher-Masoch’s novella Venus in Furs; Erika in Michael
Haneke’s The Piano Teacher; Lorne Malvo in Noah Hawley’s anthology
series Fargo.
Twist: The sadist’s fear of death drives an MO that enjoys debasing
victims. The infliction of suffering gives the abuser a temporary sense of
godlike power over life and death. But in time the law of diminishing
returns reverses everything: The more and more she humiliates her victims,
the less and less pleasure she feels. Instead, she suffers more and more
boredom, less and less power, until the dread of death becomes so
unbearable, she inflicts violence against herself.

POLITICAL THEMES
Politics is the name we give to the use, abuse, and hierarchy of power inside
social organizations—governments, corporations, religions, hospitals,
universities, and the like, even down to families, friends, and lovers.
Whenever human beings gather to do anything, there’s always an uneven
distribution of power—in short, politics.
Tyranny
The protagonist’s MO leads her to play the ruler and oppress others as her
subjects.
Examples: Violet Weston in Tracy Letts’s play, August: Osage County;
Tony Soprano in David Chase’s series The Sopranos; Tony Montana in
Oliver Stone’s screenplay for Scarface; Thomas Cromwell in Hilary
Mantel’s trilogy of novels Wolf Hall, Bring Up the Bodies, and The Mirror
and the Light.
Twist: In a master-slave relationship, the slave revolts and turns tables
on the tyrant. Second twist: The slave, now master, suddenly suffers the
stress of earning money and paying bills. She tries to get her old job back,
but her ex-master stays put, now enjoying her stress-free, worry-free life.
Democracy
The protagonist advocates balanced power.
Examples: Valentine Smith in Robert Heinlein’s novel Stranger in a
Strange Land; Longfellow Deeds in Frank Capra’s film Mr. Deeds Goes to
Town; Jon Snow in David Benioff and D. B. Weiss’s series Game of
Thrones.
Twist: A father cares for his family with a gentle, balanced hand, but to
them he seems weak. They crave discipline. Because life scares them, his
wife cheats on him and his kids run wild, subconsciously hoping he’ll bring
down his fist.
Anarchy
A character uses power so impulsively that personal, family, and social
chaos follows.
Examples: Bernard in Marc Camoletti’s farce Boeing-Boeing ; Larry
David in his sitcom Curb Your Enthusiasm; General Jack D. Ripper in Terry
Southern’s screenplay for Dr. Strangelove; the King of Dunces in Alexander
Pope’s narrative poem The Dunciad.
Twist: A chaotic character leading a chaotic life fails to get what she
wants, so she decides that from now on she will take only logical steps. She
imagines a rational future, uses rational actions to achieve her desires, then
suffers the boredom that comes with that, and so discovers that what she
really wants out of life is the excitement of chaos.

OBJECT THEMES
Characters incapable of intimate relationships often tend to treat people like
objects. If they value another person, it’s not for who they are, but for how
they serve a purpose. Of the many variations of this MO, here are four of
the more common.
The Collector
This character collects beautiful things in a treasure chest of houses, cars,
artworks, and lovers.
Examples: Frederick in John Fowles’s novel The Collector; Andrew
Wyke in Antony Shaffer’s play Sleuth; Alfie in Bill Naughton’s screenplay
for Alfie; Nick Ruskin in James Patterson’s novel Kiss the Girls.
Twist: The collector is collected.
The Player
This character treats life as a game (however deadly) and uses other people
as players (wittingly or unwittingly) in it.
Examples: George and Martha in Edward Albee’s play Who’s Afraid of
Virginia Woolf?; the Bliss family in Noel Coward’s comedy Hay Fever;
Frank Underwood in Beau Willimon’s series House of Cards; Tomas in
Milan Kundera’s novel The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
Twist: The player is played.
The Obsessive
Like the collector, the obsessive prefers things to people; unlike the
collector, the obsessive’s MO focuses on only one thing, constantly and
repetitiously. Anything can become an addiction:
Sex: Sada and Kichizo in Nagisa Oshima’s In the Realm of the Senses.
Religion: Matt Jamison in Tom Perrotta’s novel The Leftovers, the basis
for the longform series.
Drugs: Mimi Marquez in Jonathan Larson’s rock musical Rent.
Alcohol: Geoffrey Firmin in Malcolm Lowry’s novel Under the
Volcano.
Art: Martin Clay’s obsession with a lost Bruegel in Michael Frayn’s
novel Headlong.
Love: Ted Stroehmann in the Farrelly brothers’ There’s Something About
Mary.
Himself: Dorian Gray in Oscar Wilde’s novel The Picture of Dorian
Gray.
Twist: The obsessive finally gets what she wants and hates it.
The Businessman
This single-minded boss tries to run his business like a machine and treat
his workers and customers like discs and chips.
Professor Henry Higgins in George Bernard Shaw’s play Pygmalion;
Basil Fawlty in John Cleese’s twelve-episode series Fawlty Towers; Henry
Graham in Elaine May’s screenplay for A New Leaf; Alfred Lambert in
Jonathan Franzen’s novel The Corrections.
Twist: The business goes bankrupt.
SCENE CREATION: CHARACTER IN ACTION
Definition: Action means anything a character does, verbally or physically,
in thought or deed, inwardly or outwardly, that pursues a desire. Without
desire, action becomes activity—boring, time killing, thumb twirling.
To put a character into action, the writer answers these key questions in
each scene: “What do these characters want at the moment? What actions
do they take to get it? What surprising counteraction blocks their way? How
do they react to that? What do they do next?”
Let’s take these questions in sequence:
What does my character want?
Two desires, present and future, propel a character through any scene: She
desires (1) an immediate effect (what she wants to happen now) that will
take her a step toward (2) her long-term desire (the rebalancing of her life).
If the character’s current wish fails, her future darkens; if it succeeds, her
life moves in a positive direction. Actors call the character’s immediate
desire the Scene-Objective and her overall desire the Super-Objective.
To compose a scene around its turning point, first discover your
protagonist’s scene-objective, what she wants to accomplish immediately as
a step toward her super-objective. Then with that immediate goal in mind,
take her point of view and put her into action.
What is her first action?
As a scene begins, each character calls on familiar MOs and favorite tactics
—gestures and words that have worked in the past. Each relies on her best
sense of probability, a semiconscious expectation that runs like this: “Given
this situation, if I do xxx, in all probability yyy will happen, and that reaction
will take me a step toward what I want.”
A character’s life experience has taught her what reactions to anticipate
from people in a range of circumstances. Over time, a sense of probability
develops within a character. The relative sophistication of her expectations
depends on the number of years she’s lived, the breadth of her experience,
and the depth of her insight into the cause-and-effect of things. For this
reason, every character’s sense of probability is unique; every character
tests the world in her distinctive way; every character’s first action is a
tried-and-true tactic that she thinks will trigger a useful reaction.
What counteraction blocks her?
But instead of causing the helpful reaction the protagonist hopes for, the
action she takes to get what she wants provokes an unexpected, antagonistic
counteraction that blocks her from getting it. At each turning point, what a
character thinks will happen when she acts collides with what in fact
happens. Her beat-by-beat, moment-by-moment subjective expectations are
constantly violated by the objective reality of the people and world around
her.
These antagonistic counteractions could come from physical forces,
institutions, another character or group, dark impulses within herself, or a
combination of such powers.
What surprises spring from counteractions?
When a counteraction strikes from out of the blue, surprise jolts the
protagonist. She suddenly discovers hidden reactions in places she thought
she knew but now sees in a whole new light. The impact of this surprising
counteraction may change her situation to an unforeseen positive, but more
often the value at stake in a scene pivots to the negative.
How does change affect her?
A dynamic pivot around a turning point not only gives us insights into a
character and her setting but moves emotions as well. Emotion is the side
effect of a changing charge in value. Whether the emotion is positive or
negative depends on the direction of that change.
When a living value changes from negative to positive, a character
naturally experiences a positive emotion. The change from slavery to
freedom, for instance, would lift a character out of misery into joy.
Conversely, when change arcs from positive to negative, a character’s
emotions descend with it. The change from companionship to loneliness,
for example, could induce intense suffering.
Values don’t necessarily need external conflicts to bring about change.
The mind can sometimes reverse a charge all on its own.
Imagine a character living in a state of calm inner trust. She does not
fear the future. She believes that no matter what happens, she will cope. But
then, for some irrational reason, the dread of something bad heading her
way slowly seeps into her mind. Her thoughts fill with a gnawing suspicion
that in an unknown future an as-yet-unknown person in an unknown way
will violate her.
In this case, the value Safety/Threat slides from positive to negative, and
as it does, the character undergoes the icy emotions of anxiety. In an
extreme case, she could lose all control and plunge into paranoia.
What would she do next?
From the inciting incident on, the protagonist pursues her object of desire,
doing all she can to follow her self-story, her ideal sense of how to
rebalance life. But things will get worse before they get better. Her path will
be blocked by forces of antagonism that gain ever greater power and
sharper focus, putting her in more and more jeopardy, forcing her to dig
deeper and deeper into herself for better and better actions.
Throughout this conflict, the character will try to live up to her best
sense of who she is, to the ideal identity she created in her self-story. But as
her actions escalate to meet ever more intensely negative counteractions,
the pressure may become so great that her core identity cracks and her
morality, mentality, or humanity bends for better or worse. The story then
enters one of the six genres of character change. (See “The Six Plots of
Character” in Chapter Fourteen.)
Putting a character into action may force you to reconsider previous
choices. As new scenes inspire new ideas for behavior, you may want to
redesign a role’s characterization; as new turning points call for new tactics,
you may reconceive her true character. All to the good. The scene-by-scene
interplay of action and reaction evolves original inspirations into the
cohesive mergers of complex characters and superb stories.
16

CHARACTER IN PERFORMANCE
What do audiences and readers want from a cast of characters? Discovery
and recognition.
Discovery: Audiences and readers want to venture into a story the way
explorers push into a wilderness. They seek the anthropological excitement
of discovering a tribe they’ve never seen before. For no matter how exotic
or familiar the setting, its inhabitants are always strangers. Eccentric traits
and intriguing behaviors mark these roles, and so the reader/audience wants
to know them and understand them. As Aristotle said, the greatest of all
pleasures is the pleasure of learning without being taught.1 Through stories
and their characters, the reader/audience gains effortless insight into human
nature and the real-life consequences of its desires and actions.
Recognition: Once in the setting, the reader/audience wants to discover
himself. At the heart of the story’s protagonist, and perhaps other characters
as well, he recognizes a humanity that reflects his own—not in every way,
obviously, but in some essential quality. In other words, empathy with a
complex character is like looking into a mirror.
An empathetic character opens an emotional door to an intimate, even
primal, deeply felt yet fascinating identification. Without empathy, the
reader/audience sits on the outside looking in, feeling little, learning less.
Discovery and recognition allow readers and audiences to travel through
thousands of fictional realities, to live lives they could never live in worlds
they could never know, to experience feelings light-years beyond their daily
existence.
To explore how character performance achieves this for readers and
audiences, let’s start with seven common character functions.
SEVEN FUNCTIONS OF CHARACTER IN

PERFORMANCE
1. To Expand the Reader’s/Audience’s Intellectual Pleasure
The violation of expectation sparks insight, but it’s a character’s unique
traits and surprising yet believable behavior that adds fascination to the
society and setting that surrounds him.
2. To Develop Empathy in the Reader/Audience
Empathy is key. Without an emotion-deepening sense of shared humanity,
readers and audiences become indifferent and disinterested.
3. To Drive Suspense
Suspense is emotional curiosity—the merger of the reader’s/audience’s
interest in a character’s nature with their concern for his well-being. Pure
curiosity without concern turns a character into an intellectual case study;
pure concern devoid of curiosity becomes mindless longing.
To sustain plot-long suspense, a character’s actions must be various but
within limits. If he can do only one thing, he generates no suspense, but if
he can do anything, even the impossible, then once again, no suspense.
4. To Create a Puzzle Within a Puzzle
A story is a mass of questions: Why is this happening now? What will
happen next? How will this turn out?
A complex character offers readers and audiences yet another set of
questions, taking them into psychological depths: Who is he? What does he
think he wants? What does he really want? Why does he want these things?
How do his desires contradict each other? Who will he become?
By adding puzzle piece after puzzle piece, a character creates a second
line of psychological suspense that runs parallel to the story’s overall plot-
driven suspense.
5. To Surprise
Not only do unexpected counteractions from a character’s world startle the
reader/audience, but so do the character’s reactions to them. The surprising
ways he copes with change gives readers and audiences insights into his
nature. Ideally, therefore, with every turning point, a character’s reaction to
the unexpected, followed by his choice of action, no matter how big or
small, should seem unpredictable and yet in-character, making surprising
yet retrospective sense.
6. To Bring Out Dimensions in Other Characters
As we’ll see in the next chapter, in a well-designed cast, characters
illuminate and develop one another.
7. To Inspire Insight into Human Nature
Characters, no matter how realistic or fantasied, induce inner visions in
readers and audiences. Searching through the natures of characters
encourages them to explore not only themselves but the innerness of the
people around them.

THE READER/AUDIENCE/CHARACTER

CONNECTION
Feelings of fear, rage, love, hate, suspicion, defiance, and submission have
evolved to cope with life’s deadliest threat: other people. That’s a sensible
adaptation. What isn’t logical is the way we disconnect these energies from
reality and aim them at people who do not exist. Emotion helps us survive
in reality, but what’s the point of making ourselves vulnerable in a fiction?
As noted, characters serve an educational purpose. People, both real and
imagined, are puzzles to be solved. Characters arouse our curiosity and then
satisfy it as we perceive what’s in their minds, giving us valuable insights
into ourselves and others.
That makes sense. It’s our emotional connection that seems strange.
Crying over the charred victims of a forest fire is a logical reaction in real
life, but why do we shed tears for the characters who perished in The
Towering Inferno? How do imagined beings in imagined worlds cross the
line from fantasy to actuality and break the hearts of audiences and readers?
How do unreal beings spur real, even painful, emotions?
The Power of As If
Between our two inner domains of rational thought and instinctive emotion
sits a third realm. When it wishes, the mind can leave reality behind and
relax into the imaginary landscape of as if.
The power to pretend, to think in an as if mode, is an evolutionary
adaptation that enhanced survival. The shift to a hypothetical gear gives the
self a chance to rehearse reality before it happens as a means to survive
when it does happen. The first art, for example, far older than cave painting
or figurative carving, was dance—an ancient as if ceremony that mimicked
hunting and killing as preparation for real life-and-death violence.
The same is true of stories and their characters. When we connect to
people who do not exist, we experience trial emotions—love prior to actual
romance, fear prior to actual threats, grief prior to actual loss. Emotional
immersions in the as ifs of fiction prepare the mind for the real thing; they
rehearse survival and equip us for life.2
Reader/Audience POV
From an audience’s or a reader’s point of view, the emotions they feel for
characters seem simple and natural, but for the writer, creating and shaping
these experiences calls for a skillful balancing of one aspect with another.
First of all, life contains just two basic emotional experiences: the
pleasureful and the painful. Each of these, however, comes in infinite
shades and strains—the pleasureful such as joy, love, beauty, and sensuality
versus the painful such as grief, rage, terror, and sadness. Varying qualities
of emotion depend on two different reader/audience reactions to character:
sympathy and empathy.
Sympathy, aka Likability
When the reader/audience feels that a character is “likable,” sympathetic
feelings flow. A pleasant and agreeable character becomes someone they
would like as a neighbor, a coworker, or an acquaintance, someone worth a
chat now and then. And of course, the reverse is also true. If a
reader/audience dislikes a character, then their feelings turn to irritation,
even contempt, which may be exactly what the writer wants.
Empathy, aka Identification
The moment a reader opens a book or a storygoer takes a seat, he begins
searching the story’s world for the best place to put his emotional interest.
As setting and cast appear, he quickly sorts positives from negatives,
worthy from worthless, boring from interesting, right from wrong, good
from evil, seeking the Center of Good.
He seeks the “good” because, like all human beings, he’s aware of his
flaws and weaknesses, but on balance, he’s convinced that he’s more true
than false, more just than unjust, more fair than unfair—his intentions
sincere. Because he considers himself essentially positive, he naturally
seeks the story’s center of good as a mirror of himself.3
When he senses a link between a quality within himself and the same
quality living inside a cast member, he identifies with that character.
Empathy, his sense of “someone like me,” turns this character into a person
he might want to have as family, friend, or lover, or even become himself.
Empathy is instinctive; it happens spontaneously and subconsciously.
Antipathy needs a conscious choice. When the mind spots moral or
aesthetic repulsiveness in a role’s inner nature, it refuses to identify, and any
chance for empathy withers into an aversion or no feeling at all.
Once a reader or audience goer senses a kindred spirit, he instinctively
roots for that character’s success. He experiences the telling, to some
degree, as if it were happening to him. He lives in parallel to the character
as he vicariously performs the character’s actions and experiences the
character’s emotions.
The Primacy of Empathy
When facing a work of story art, people become moral philosophers. They
measure the behavior of characters against ethical standards higher than the
ones they enforce in themselves. In the struggle between what a person
should do versus must do, audiences lean toward the should as they seek the
center of good.
This is why when two intelligent, sensitive people experience the same
story and yet come away with opposite reactions, it has little to do with the
telling and everything to do with empathy. One empathized with the
protagonist and so loved the story, subconsciously sweeping away all flaws
so as not to spoil his pleasure. The other felt antipathy toward the
protagonist, and so hates the story and finds its flaws painful. In other
words, one identified with the center of good; the other either couldn’t find
it, or if he did, he was repelled by it.
The center of good doesn’t name a glow of kindness or sweetness.
Empathetic characters often wage private wars between moral and immoral
impulses. Rather, the phrase refers to the positive light at the heart of a
character that shines in contrast to the negative shades surrounding it. To
make certain that empathy flows where it’s needed most, the storyteller
anchors this positive charge in the central plot’s protagonist.
Placement of the center of good within a character is just one of many
delicate graces an author must manage while shaping the
reader’s/audience’s emotions. Here’s a short list of five such balancing acts:
A Balance of Good
Consider Mario Puzo’s Godfather trilogy: It maps out a criminal universe of
gangsters, crooked cops, and corrupt politicians. The Corleone family,
however, has one positive quality: loyalty. They stick together and defend
each other. Other mafia families back-stab in constant cycles of betrayal.
That makes them the bad bad guys, while the Godfather’s family’s loyalty
makes them the good bad guys. When the audience senses that positive
charge, empathy flows and they find themselves identifying with mobsters.
To take the center of good a step deeper, look at the cast design of
Thomas Harris’s novel The Silence of the Lambs. The reader finds an
empathic center in Clarice Starling, the protagonist, but they also find one
in a first circle role, Hannibal Lecter. To begin, the author surrounds Lecter
with a darker world: The FBI manipulates Clarice while it lies to Lecter;
Lecter’s psychiatrist and jailer is a sadist and publicity hound; the cops
Lecter kills are fools. Then Harris radiates powerful lights from within the
character: Lecter is massively intelligent; he feels compassion for Clarice;
his dry wit is a delight; his schemes are brilliant and pulled off with cool
courage; he lives in a hellish asylum, yet stays amazingly calm and
gentlemanly. As a center of good forms inside Lecter, the reader identifies
with him, thinking and shrugging: “So he eats people. There are worse
things. Offhand I can’t think what, but there must be. Because if I were a
psychopathic, cannibalistic serial killer, I’d want to be just like Lecter; he’s
amazing.”
A Balance of Power
At an early point in your story’s development do this: Put your protagonist
in one hand, so to speak, and weigh his capacities for action, intelligence,
imagination, will, maturity, and other such strengths. Then in your other
hand, weigh the sum total of power in all the sources of antagonism he will
have to confront through the telling.
Start with impulses and contradictory desires at war within him; he may
well be his own worst enemy. On top of his inner conflicts, stack the
problems he’ll confront in his personal relationships. Next, add antagonisms
from the institutions that surround him—employment, government, church,
and the like. Lastly, top it off with forces in the physical world: the chaos of
traffic, extreme weather, lethal diseases, not enough time to get things done,
too far to go to get what he needs, and the brevity of life itself.
When you weigh your protagonist’s individual capacities against the
sum total of antagonistic forces he will face from all levels of his life, you
should see that the odds against achieving his object of desire are enormous.
He is an underdog.
At heart, everyone on this planet thinks of himself as an underdog. The
poor and weak obviously are, but even rich, powerful top dogs whine and
wallow in self-pity over government regulations and taxes. Virtually
everyone feels that life is an uphill battle against persistently negative
forces, starting with the fact that, sooner or later, your time will be up. For
that reason, the reader/audience will not empathize with an overdog such as
Mark Zuckerberg (Jesse Eisenberg) in The Social Network. To draw
empathy to the heart of your story, therefore, place your protagonist at the
center of good, array very powerful forces against him, and cast him as an
underdog.
A Balance of Intensity
Some characters we love for a lifetime, others we dismiss. The vividness of
a character in the reader’s/audience’s imagination, along with the intensity
of their caring, depends on the strength of identification. To feel an intense
link, they imagine what it would be like to be the character and sense his
thoughts and feelings. This, of course, depends on a willingness to
empathize. Some characters we swallow whole; others we only taste and
judge. An author must create a role both complex enough to hold a
reader’s/audience’s conscious interest and human enough to capture their
subconscious empathy.
A Balance of Focus
Drawing empathy away from the telling’s central character to a supporting
role instead risks defocusing the reader/audience. On the other hand, each
subplot has a subcenter of good in its protagonist. These additional story
lines often magnify overall involvement.
Readers and audiences can identify with a great variety of roles. When a
cast draws its storygoers into multiple lines of empathy, they focus on
several at once or alternate between them. A diverse cast gives them the
chance to visit different mental landscapes and to empathize with or be
repelled by what we discover inside.4
Game of Thrones, for example, follows three major story arcs: The first
takes Cersei Lannister as protagonist against the royal families who fight to
usurp her or win independence from her rule. A second arc takes Daenerys
Targaryen as its protagonist and follows her quest to reclaim the Iron
Throne. A third arc takes Jon Snow as the protagonist leading the Night
Watch into battle against the Night King and his White Walkers.
These three crosscutting central plots spawned numerous subplots of
family conflict, political drama, and love story, along with plots of character
redemption, degeneration, evolution, and devolution. Practically every
major character had a subplot, and with that, a subcenter of good.
A Balance of Attitudes
When a cast of characters reacts to one of its members, their response
radiates social signals such as empathy, antipathy, likability, animosity, or
indifference. If the reader/audience empathizes with the cast, they’re
encouraged to feel what the cast feels. If they dislike the cast, that’s their
cue to feel the opposite of whatever the cast feels.
The Bridges of Madison County, for example, uses a scene in a diner to
shape the audience’s attitude toward adultery. When a known adulteress
enters the coffee shop, the protagonist (who’s contemplating adultery
himself) offers her a seat at the lunch counter. As she takes it, the locals
whisper and glare at her until, humiliated, she turns and walks out.
The two adulterers are attractive, intelligent, and polite; the townies who
stare at them are snarly faced and ignorant, each misshapen in his or her
own special way. The audience senses that if they join this adultery-hating
crowd, they too might seem repulsive and obnoxious. To escape that, they
send their empathy where the writer wants it, to the good-looking sinners.
The Danger of Empathy
Even though human beings are genetically disposed to empathize, their
feelings toward characters vary greatly by intensity and depth from story to
story, reader to reader, audience to audience. People motivated by self-
interest are less sensitive to the inner states of characters; others with strong
empathetic natures are more sensitive.5 Taken a step too far, the overly
empathetic fall prey to the narcissists who exploit them. By making us
gravitate toward people “like me,” empathy also causes prejudice and
impairs judgment. It leads us to prefer attractive people to ugly, nepotism to
merit, short-term victims of an immediate disaster to long-term victims of
disease or starvation. It discourages quiet observation, listening, and
judgment.6 On the other hand, without empathy to deepen involvement,
sympathy alone twists into sentimentality.
Sentiment Versus Sentimentality
As noted previously, sentiment is a balanced emotional response in
proportion to the events that caused it. Sentimentality is an imbalanced,
undermotivated, overexpressed indulgence that’s out of proportion to the
events that caused it: for example, a brave smile through trembling tears
shed over a child’s better-than-average report card.
In the climax of Game of Thrones, Season 8, Episode 5, “The Bells,”
Jaime Lannister fights his way to the trapped and terrified Cersei. Just as
the Red Keep collapses around them, he takes her in his arms and says,
“Look at me. Just look at me. Nothing else matters. Only us.” He sacrifices
his life so that she won’t die alone. This act, in proportion to his love,
moves an honest sentiment.
In Schindler’s List, a black-and-white film set during the Holocaust, a
little girl wearing a bright red coat walks through the horrific liquidation of
Krakow. Later, Oskar Schindler sees the child’s dead body wrapped in her
red coat and the sight moves him to change from selfish, callous materialist
to noble, self-sacrificing hero. This is wish fulfillment and as phony as a
villain stroking a kitten to show that, evil as he is, he can feel something for
a pet. As Carl Jung pointed out, cruelty seduces its victims with the syrup of
sentimentality.
Reader/Audience Interpretation
A story asks its reader/audience to interpret not only the events in front of
them, but offscreen, offstage, or off-page happenings as well. They must
add up what has occurred since the previous scene that led to the present,
and they must infer the future this present event may bring. Without their
ability to interpret, involvement is impossible.

The same is true for subtext. To discover the truth of a character’s
motivations, readers and audiences must look past his words and deeds, his
choices and actions, and seek hidden causes and meanings.
Interpretation, however, depends on an understanding of desires and
values. To react fully and grasp a clear meaning, the reader/audience must
sense a character’s immediate desire in each scene, and how these scene-by-
scene desires feed into his end goal at the climax. To understand what a
character wants, however, the reader/audience must also understand the
values at play in each scene and the core value that drives the story.
A misunderstanding of a story’s values causes a misunderstanding of
character desires, which leads to misinterpretation. If readers or audiences
cannot sort out what’s at stake in your character’s life, what’s positive from
what’s negative, then they may misunderstand what the character wants or
why he wants it. Their bewilderment leads to mistaken readings that distort
the meaning you want to express.
Case Study: Heart of Darkness
Set in Africa in the 1890s, Joseph Conrad’s novella Heart of Darkness
follows riverboat captain Charles Marlow up the Congo on a mission for a
Belgian trading company to bring back a cargo of ivory and the company’s
agent, Kurtz, who they fear has gone rogue.
During the voyage, Marlow questions people who know Kurtz, and
everything he hears seems contradictory. Some fear and distrust him,
hinting at a sinister nature. Others claim he’s a civilized and charismatic
artist and musician. One thing is certain: Kurtz knows how to inspire the
slaughter of elephants and pile up their tusks by the ton.
In one possible interpretation, Marlow is a psychological detective,
fascinated by the enigmatic Kurtz. This makes the story’s core value
Insight/Ignorance and the discovery of the real Kurtz Captain Marlow’s
object of desire.
In a different reading, Marlow is a lost soul, adrift in moral confusion.
His fellow Europeans think that colonialism brings civilization to the “dark
continent,” but Marlow suspects that this is a convenient self-deception to
rationalize their greed. He hopes that Kurtz understands this, too, and has
rebelled against his employers by choosing the virtues of primitive nobility
over perverse civilization. In this case, the story’s core value becomes
Purity/Corruption, and Marlow’s object of desire is to prove that human
nature, in its primal state, is innately good.
When Marlow reaches Kurtz, however, he discovers that the once-
civilized gentleman has turned into a vicious tyrant worshipped like a god
by brutalized, terrified tribesmen. Kurtz’s embrace of the primitive has not
unleashed his nobility but his barbarity.
Different values create different meanings: In the first interpretation,
when Marlow discovers the radically changed Kurtz, he realizes that
because the core self evolves, it’s impossible to know another person’s true
identity. In the second interpretation, Marlow gains a deeper, more universal
insight into the innate savagery of human nature.
Key point: Once the reader/audience grasps the story’s essential subject
matter, its core value, that perception grounds their interpretation of
character.
Reader/Audience Perception
In addition to the emotions they feel and the meanings they interpret,
readers and audiences also perceive characters on different levels (text
versus subtext), at different points in the chain of events (free will versus
fate), and from different angles of awareness (mystery versus suspense
versus dramatic irony). During the creative process, an author needs to
work with his characters from each of these three points of view:
Text Versus Subtext

Feeling empathy is not the same as perceiving subtext. Readers and
audiences read the minds of characters they hate as well as love. Rather
than simply following a story with interest, they become simultaneously
aware of what’s going on at two levels: outward sayings and doings versus

inward thinking and feeling—text versus subtext.
As Dostoevsky noted, the implied inner life of a complex role is
symphonic. When one character tells another what’s on his mind, readers
and audiences hear just two or three notes, but then perceive an orchestra of
thoughts and feeling playing within. The two modes of character
performance activate this perception in two very different ways:
On page, the creativity of the writer and the imagination of the reader
combine to generate characters. Onstage and on-screen, the actor, supported
by directors, lighting and set designers, cinematographers, editors, makeup
artists, and composers, work in concert to bring the writer’s creation to the
audience.
In terms of characterization, audiences watching the screen or stage see
characters from head to foot as they move through their social and physical
settings. They absorb an enormous amount of detail, leaving little work for
the imagination. The reader, on the other hand, notes details, some concrete,
some metaphorical, then adds his own personal experiences scattered
through a lifetime, and finally pours these ingredients into his imagination,
stirring the bits and pieces together to concoct a characterization.
In terms of true character, when watching performances onstage or on-
screen, the imagination peers past the actors’ eyes, past words and gestures,
past intentions and self-deceptions, searching for the truth rising up from
the subconscious. It sees the character form ideas in his conscious mind, but
then hold them unspoken beneath the surface of his persona.
First-person prose often puts the character’s conscious thoughts,
although unspoken to other characters, on the page. Now the reader must
penetrate the written text to scan the protagonist’s subconscious. The inner
life of the rest of the cast comes filtered through the narrator’s perceptions.
How much that warps the true thoughts and desires of these characters
alters from author to author.
Third-person prose varies perceptions. Some writers show and imply,
others tell and explain. Writers who show dramatize surface behaviors and
imply a character’s inner life; those who tell portray a character’s thoughts
and feelings directly on the page. Hemingway’s The Old Man and the Sea is
an example of the first; Virginia Woolf’s Mrs. Dalloway is an example of
the second. Today, most third-person prose mixes showing with telling,
implying with explaining.
Free Will Versus Fate
As noted previously, when we begin a story and look forward to its ending,
the protagonist’s course to the future seems open to all possibilities. But
when the story ends and we look back to the beginning, events seem
predetermined. Now that we know him in depth, we feel that his
psychology could not let him act any way other than he did. Given the
innate powers of the physical and social world that surrounded him, what
happened had to happen. He was at the mercy of an invisible but inevitable
fate.
In storytelling, the perception of determinism versus free will depends
on the reader’s/audience’s location in time: before, during, or after events.
Before things happen, we’re ignorant of what lies ahead, so the characters
seem free to choose and act. But after things happen, we look back and
discover that a multitude of interconnected forces flowed into everything.
The outcome now seems destined. The writer, therefore, needs to pace
character arcs, scene by scene, sequence by sequence, act by act, so that our
curiosity at the beginning is satisfied at the ending by a retrospective insight
into their fate.
Mystery / Suspense / Dramatic Irony
Characters struggle through invented events in invented worlds unaware
that they live in a fiction; to them the telling is their life. Readers and
audiences, meanwhile, sit outside story-time, knowing events before,
during, or after the characters experience them. This split in awareness
creates three storytelling strategies: Mystery, Suspense, Dramatic Irony.
Mystery puts characters ahead of the reader or audience. In the classic
Murder Mystery, for example, someone goes to a closet for a shirt, opens
the door, and a dead body falls out. This twist puts the victim’s killer ahead
of the storygoer. The murderer knows who did it, but he’s not talking.
Therefore, the ever-curious reader/audience, knowing less than the
characters, runs from behind, looking ahead, following events wherever
they lead, trying to find out what the characters already know.
Stories ruled by mystery, especially those propelled by master
detectives, draw sympathy but no empathy. Sherlock Holmes is likable but
not like us. We can’t identify with him because his brilliance touches
perfection.
Suspense puts the reader/audience in the same moment as the cast. The
instant events happen, they impact both characters and storygoers. The
reader/audience may anticipate certain turning points and characters may
hide certain secrets, but overall, each knows the past and present, while
neither knows the future. Thus, the major dramatic question (MDQ)
becomes “How will this turn out?” Ninety percent of all storytelling
employs this strategy.
Dramatic Irony puts the reader/audience ahead of the characters,
knowing future events before they happen to the cast. This strategy shifts
the MDQ from “How will this turn out?” to “How and why did these
characters do what I already know they did?”
Two films by Billy Wilder, Double Indemnity and Sunset Blvd., open
with their protagonists riddled with bullets, then flash back to the choices
and actions that cost them their lives. Because the filmgoer knows the
ending from the very beginning, he watches from a godlike perspective,
knowing that the schemes the protagonist thinks will enrich him will
ultimately kill him.
Stories set during renowned historical events or told about famous
people automatically position the reader/audience in dramatic irony. But
then to some degree, no matter the telling’s strategy, the reader/audience
often knows things characters don’t. For example, anything said, done, or
planned in any scene that does not contain the protagonist instantly gives us
greater knowledge than him because we were there and he wasn’t.
However, other than biographies and murder mysteries, the exclusive
use of either dramatic irony or closed mystery is relatively rare. Instead,
most writers merge all three: Suspense shapes their overall strategy, but
within its arc, characters that hide secrets know more than the storygoer,
while readers and audiences reacting to flashbacks know more than the
characters in them.
The political and romantic plotlines in Casablanca fill the film with
suspense, but within that tension, a flashback to the young lovers’ meeting
in Paris adds a layer of dramatic irony. As the audience watches Rick and
Ilsa’s romance, they know the dark future that awaits the lovers. Later, the
telling shifts to mystery when Rick chooses his final action but keeps it
secret from everyone, including the audience.
More recently, in The Sympathizer, a first-person novel by Viet Thanh
Nguyen, an espionage chief holds a double agent captive and forces him to
write out his life story and, above all, tell the truth. The prose we read is
that “confession.” Suspense hangs on the MDQ: Will the spy tell the truth
or lie? And will his choice save him or kill him?
As the narrator’s confession weaves back and forth over three decades,
mysteries surrounding hidden assassination plots entice the reader, while, at
the same time, dramatic irony haunts every page. We realize that even
though the protagonist faced death, he must have survived or we couldn’t
be reading his book.
The Power of First Impressions
Let’s end this chapter with a look at beginnings:
While creating starting points—images that establish locations, chapters
that open novels, actions that trigger scenes—be alert to the power of first
impressions. When the reader/audience encounters something new, his
thoughts rush ahead, driven by curiosity, anticipating the worst or best or
both, wondering where this new thing will lead. This is particularly true the
moment a character enters the telling, and absolutely true when it’s your
protagonist.
Resist the urge to plant your protagonist on page one. Instead, intrigue
the reader or audience by withholding the protagonist until the most
effective scene, and then give him an entrance.
In the opening scenes of Casablanca, characters raise questions about
the protagonist, finding him charismatic yet aloof, renowned yet
mysterious. When the camera finally settles on Rick Blaine, he’s dressed in
a white tuxedo, playing chess against himself. After all those setups, the
audience naturally wonders, “Who is this guy?”
No matter where you bring in your major characters, fame them with an
entrance that introduces them with impact:
In David Lean’s Lawrence of Arabia, Sherif Ali first appears as a distant
speck on the horizon, then rides slowly toward us, growing larger and larger
against a blazing desert sky.
In Eugene O’Neill’s Long Day’s Journey into Night, Mary Tyrone
wanders into her living room, mumbling in a morphine haze.
In Ralph Ellison’s Invisible Man, a man sits in a basement lit by a
hundred blindingly bright bare bulbs strung from the ceiling. He calmly
tells the reader that he’s stealing electricity from the city.
In Season 1, Episode 1 of Phoebe Waller-Bridge’s Killing Eve, a sweet-
faced child sits in an ice cream parlor eating a sundae. From across the
room, Villanelle smiles at her and the kid gleams back. Then as Villanelle
heads for the door, she smacks the girl’s ice cream into her startled face.
In William Golding’s Darkness Visible, the Luftwaffe pulverizes World
War II London. Then out of the raging bomb-blasted inferno, a child
emerges naked, horribly burnt and disfigured.
In the Jerry Herman–Jerome Lawrence–Robert E. Lee musical Mame,
Mame blows a bugle atop a curved staircase, then slides down the banister.
Ideally, the entrance of a complex character intrigues us about his future
and invites insight into his core self.

PART 4

CHARACTER RELATIONSHIPS
No one reveals her complete self to anyone. Each of us exposes only certain
facets to others, holding back the rest, keeping big secrets at home. The
same is true for self-knowledge. No one shows all of herself to herself.
Blind to who we really are, certain truths are perceived only by other
people.1
As in life, so in fiction. One character may link to another through a
shared academic interest or religious feelings or romantic love, but never all
aspects equally at once with any one person. However, if you surround this
character with a cast, each member geared to draw out a specific aspect, her
traits and dimensions will reveal themselves as she encounters the various
cast members. The writer’s problem, therefore, is how to design a cast so
that by the climax, the reader/audience knows the characters better than the
characters know themselves.
Principle of Character Relationships: Every cast member draws
traits and truths out of every other cast member.
Part Four puts this principle to work as it guides the mapping and
designing of a cast.
17

CAST DESIGN
No one travels to her destiny down a razor-straight road. Each of us winds
through a maze of social and personal intersections, navigating crossroads
and cloverleafs, the entrances, exits, and U-turns of relationships. A
character’s core self, therefore, is never the sole determiner of her fate. Her
instincts push her toward one set of desires, while the tides of physical,
social, and personal oceans pull her toward others. Because people impact
one another, we design casts around links and oppositions that define each
other’s qualities. Within these conjoined yet contrasted dealings, a cast
forms.
Inside a well-formed cast, traits and dimensions create counterpoints
that distinguish each character from every other character. While interacting
within scenes, or talking or thinking about each other in separate scenes,
roles reveal and clarify one another by contrast and contradiction. What’s
more, as characters interact face-to-face, they provoke actions and reactions
in each other that reveal the positive/negative charges of their
dimensionalities.
As focus shifts from character to character, this system shapes how they
help and hinder each other, what they want or refuse, what they will or will
not do, who they are, and how each character exposes the traits and
dynamics of the others. When incompatible desires fester into conflict, the
links between characters break, transforming relationships.
So as a writer develops her story, she constantly compares and contrasts
characters, arranging similarities and differences, creating patterns only she
can see. Hamlet desperately searches for meaning, but Shakespeare always
knew where his prince would finally find it.
Therefore, just because a character appears in your imagination doesn’t
mean she’s earned a place in your cast. Each role must play a part in a
creative strategy that enhances the storytelling. The reader’s/audience’s full
psychological involvement comes not from the protagonist alone, but from
the tensions between resemblances and differences among all cast members.
If characters are opposed on just one axle—good versus evil, or courageous
versus cowardly—they trivialize each other, and interest in them wanes. But
if they are opposed in complex ways, they arouse curiosities and empathies
that draw energy and concentration from the storygoer. This calls for
thoughtful cast design. The next five sections explore five examples from
the major storytelling media.
CASE STUDY: PRIDE AND PREJUDICE
Jane Austen’s basic cast design embraces the five Bennet sisters. Austen
places Elizabeth, her complex protagonist, at the center and gives her four
visible traits: cool rationality, social charm, self-esteem, and independence.
To span Elizabeth’s dimensions, Austen then opposes these outer features
with four inner qualities of impulse, private convictions, humility, and
romantic longing.
These four contradictions—Rational/Impulsive, Social Charm / Private
Conviction, Self-Esteem/Humility, Independence / Romantic Longing—set
her dimensions and come into play as Austen links Elizabeth to a quartet of
sisters: Jane, Mary, Kitty, and Lydia.
The personalities of her four siblings depend on their outer traits only.
None of the four are dimensional; instead, each is flat and exactly who she
seems to be. In a design of mutual oppositions, each sister’s traits define
and highlight one of Elizabeth’s dimensions, while Elizabeth’s dimensions
counterpoint their traits. These distinctions clarify and individualize all five
characters.
1. Elizabeth and Jane
Elizabeth’s core dimension pits intellect against impulse. At the novel’s
inciting incident, she’s a woman with patient, mature insights into people.
But when she meets Mr. Darcy, an impulsive, prejudicial judgment about
the prideful gentleman (thus the title Pride and Prejudice) suddenly
contradicts her normally balanced acumen, turning her against Darcy and
setting their story on its rocky road to love when she at last realizes that her
private convictions are in fact prejudices, that her self-esteem is a synonym
for pride, and that she and Darcy mirror each other.
Elizabeth’s Four Dimensions
In clear contrast to Elizabeth’s sophisticated skepticism, Jane, her older
sister, innocently trusts in the goodness of people. Jane’s fawn-like naïveté
sharply diverges from her clear-eyed sister and leads to unfortunate choices.
2. Elizabeth and Mary
Elizabeth’s second dimension counterpoints her charming wit with moral
conviction. Deep within, Elizabeth holds unambiguous ethical beliefs, but
rather than bore or antagonize friends and family, she keeps them unseen
and unspoken behind her smiling charisma.
Mary, on the other hand, irks people with her moralizing pedantry and
pretentiousness. As a result, she has, unlike Elizabeth, no social life.
3. Elizabeth and Lydia
Elizabeth’s third dimension contradicts her spirited sense of self-worth with
restrained, unaffected modesty.
Lydia, conversely, puts her animal spirits on constant display, making
her frivolous vanities and flirtations all the more immodest.
4. Elizabeth and Kitty
Elizabeth’s fourth dimension pits her willful independence against her
equally strong romantic attraction to Mr. Darcy.
Kitty is her opposite: dependent, needy, weak willed, and easily reduced
to tears.
Elizabeth’s intelligent, self-possessed calm contradicts the weak, frantic
insecurities of her four sisters. In the scenes between the sisters, each
evokes the contrasting traits of the others, so that the five become
distinctive and memorable, all the while keeping Elizabeth solidly at the
novel’s center.
Like Elizabeth, dimensions in highly complex characters crisscross
between all four levels of self: social, personal, private, hidden. The more
dimensions in a character, the more relationships she needs to delineate her
complexities. Therefore, to activate your imagination as you develop each
character and explore the interplay of your cast’s traits and dimensions, I
suggest that you lay out a map of your cast’s traits and dimensions.
Cast Map
To map your cast’s interconnections, create three concentric circles. At the
center of it place your protagonist. Because contradictions need
performance time to reveal themselves to the reader/audience, give this
character a majority of dimensions. The four-dimensional Elizabeth Bennet,
for example, centers the cast map of Pride and Prejudice.
Around the first circle, distribute major supporting and servicing
players, noting their traits and dimensions. Then counterpoint them with the
protagonist. For example, the three-dimensional Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth’s
four sisters:
Darcy (Prideful/Chastened, Arrogant/Kindhearted, Self-deceived/Self-
aware), Jane (Innocent), Mary (Pedantic), Kitty (Immodest), Lydia
(Dependent). Elizabeth brings out the three positive sides of Darcy.
Because dimensions draw interest to a character and consume
storytelling time to express, limit second circle roles to their distinctive
traits only. For example: Mr. and Mrs. Bennet (anxious parents), Charles
Bingley (amiable friend), Caroline Bingley (snobbish), Charlotte Lucas
(sensible), William Collins (pompous), George Wickham (deceitful), Louisa
Hurst (snobbish), Lady Catherine de Bourgh (imperious), Mr. and Mrs.
Edward Gardiner (genteel).
Third circle parts fill out the periphery: servants, villagers, tradesmen,
and distant relatives.
CASE STUDY: A FISH CALLED WANDA
A Fish Called Wanda was written by John Cleese and Charles Crichton.
The Motion Picture Academy nominated them for Best Original Screenplay
and Best Director, giving an Oscar to Kevin Kline for Best Supporting
Actor. John Cleese and Michael Palin won BAFTAs for Best Actor and
Best Supporting Actor. The British Film Institute ranks it among the
greatest British films of the twentieth century. Its inspiration happened over
lunch.
One day, as the two worked together on a corporate video, Cleese, who
graduated in law from Cambridge University, remarked that he’d always
dreamed of playing a barrister. Crichton responded that he’d always
dreamed of directing a scene with a steamroller in it. They decided to
coauthor a screenplay containing both a barrister and a steamroller.
Cleese then mused this bit of whimsy: A man who loves dogs can’t stop
killing them. Crichton naturally asked the logical question, Why? Answer:
He’s actually trying to kill the dogs’ owner and keeps missing. Why is he
trying to kill the owner? Because she’s a witness. A witness to what? A
robbery. And on they went to satirize film noir plots into a delightful
“crimedy.”
Story
Wanda, an American con artist, and Otto, her boyfriend, plan to double-
cross George, a London gangster, and his partner, Ken. After the four of
them pull a multi-million-dollar diamond heist, Wanda and Otto
immediately rat George out to the police, but then discover that he has
triple-crossed them by secretly hiding the diamonds.
Wanda gets a lead on George’s stash when she discovers a safe deposit
box key in Ken’s fish tank and hides it in her pendant. Next, the film adds a
Love Story subplot when Wanda seduces George’s barrister, Archie, hoping
to learn the diamonds’ whereabouts from him. But then she accidently loses
her pendant in Archie’s house and Archie’s wife, Wendy, mistakes it for a
gift from Archie.
George tells Ken to kill the only eyewitness to the robbery, Mrs. Coady,
a mean old lady who owns three pocket dogs. Ken tries to knock her off
three times over, but each time he accidentally kills one of her dogs instead.
He finally succeeds when he crushes the third dog under a massive
construction block and the horrifying sight gives Coady a fatal heart attack.
With no witness, George is ready for release from jail, so he tells Ken
where he hid the diamonds as they plan their getaway. But in a courtroom
hearing, Wanda double-crosses George. Stunned, Archie inadvertently calls
her “darling.” Wendy, watching from the gallery, realizes that Archie had an
affair with Wanda and ends their marriage.
Meanwhile, Otto tortures Ken and learns that the jewels are hidden in a
hotel safe deposit box. Otto knows the hiding place and Wanda has the key
to the box, so they join forces.
Archie resolves to cut his losses, steal the loot, and flee to South
America with Wanda. He pulls her into his Jag and they race to Ken’s flat.
But when Archie runs into Ken’s building, Otto steals Archie’s car, taking
Wanda with him.
Ken and Archie give chase. Otto and Wanda recover the diamonds, but
Wanda double-crosses Otto, knocking him unconscious in a broom closet.
Otto recovers and sprints for Wanda’s plane, but Archie confronts him on
the airport tarmac. Otto is just about to shoot Archie when Ken runs him
over with a steamroller. Archie and Wanda reunite aboard the plane.
Here is the A Fish Called Wanda cast map, setting out their obsessions
and dimensions:
As we saw in Chapter Thirteen, comic characters are marked by a blind
obsession, a rigid behavior they do not see in themselves and from which
they cannot deviate.
Archie Leach (John Cleese) obsesses on his fear of embarrassment.
Once he realizes this, however, he takes on the “Cary Grant” role and
becomes the film’s romantic lead. (Archie Leach was Cary Grant’s real
name.)
Archie’s three dimensions:
He’s fearful and courageous. At first, he’s frightened of the mad Otto
but eventually finds the courage to face him.
He’s a lawyer and a criminal. Many people would not see that as a
contradiction, but in Archie’s case it is. He’s devoted to the law but
commits crimes for love.
He’s devoted to others but then to himself. He works for his wife,
daughter, and clients, denying himself, but once he falls for Wanda,
he finally fights for what he wants out of life.
Wanda Gershwitz (Jamie Lee Curtis) obsesses on men who speak
foreign languages.
Wanda’s two dimensions:
She’s sexually calculating and sexually impulsive. Smarter by far than
any of the male characters, she uses her charms to manipulate them,
occasionally falling prey to her blind obsession.
She’s devoted to herself but then to Archie. Money is her only object of
desire, but then she falls for Archie and gives him her heart.
Otto West (Kevin Kline) obsesses on Nietzsche.
Otto’s two dimensions:
He’s intelligent but ignorant. Otto is an ex-CIA operative who quotes
Nietzschean philosophy but thinks that the London Underground is a
political movement.
He’s clever but confused. Otto thinks quickly under pressure and lies
with easy skill but loses focus during conversations and can’t
remember the “middle thing.”
Ken Pile (Michael Palin) obsesses on animal welfare.
Ken’s one dimension:
He loves animals to the point of obsession but disdains people. He feels
a tragic loss when an animal dies, sending him to the pet cemetery in
tears and grief, but he happily kills a human being on the street.
George Thomason (Tom Georgeson) obsesses on crime as a white-collar
profession.
George’s one dimension:
He’s icy and volcanic. George is cool, calculating, ruthless, dapper, and
devoted to his criminal trade, but when Wanda double-crosses him in
a courtroom, his rage exposes him to the world.
Wendy Leach (Maria Aitken) obsesses on her superiority. She’s
aristocratic, arrogant, and unloving toward others, even her daughter.
Portia Leach (Cynthia Cleese) obsesses on her nose. Her key trait is self-
centeredness.
Eileen Coady (Patricia Hayes) obsesses on her dogs. Her dominant trait
is irritability.
The rest of the cast contains prosecutors, a judge, jewelers, locksmith,
clerks, clients, jailors, and passersby.
Conclusion
Although critics rarely take comedy seriously, all well-told stories make
meaning. The controlling idea of A Fish Called Wanda is that you, too,
could end up in Rio de Janeiro with $20 million in diamonds and the lover
of your dreams if you’re willing to throw away your career and your family.
CASE STUDY: SLAVE PLAY
A play by Jeremy O. Harris
Slave Play is a modern allegory. The title suggests a drama about slavery
but also hints at whips and bondage, welts and orgasms. Individually, its
characters seem realistic as they grapple with intimate, personal problems,
but at the same time they symbolize a range of types caught up in the
eternal conflict between the powerful and the powerless.
Jeremy Harris began writing Slave Play while a student at Yale
University. It opened off-Broadway in 2018 and sparked immediate
controversy. The following year it moved to Broadway, where it played to
sold-out houses until COVID-19 closed all theatres.
Slave Play raises these questions: What drives racism? Why is
America’s racial ménage so dysfunctional? Is it nature or nurture? Power-
hungry impulses in the human psyche? Or the tyrannical social institutions
of segregation and mass incarceration? To seek answers, the play casts four
troubled interracial couples.
The play’s black characters burn with the history of racial trauma, but
their white lovers don’t, can’t, or won’t see it or feel it. Although they
genuinely care for their black partners, they either ignore their blackness or
find it charmingly erotic. And if the black partners felt safe to express what
they suffer, would their white lovers ever see it and get it? Or are black
lovers condemned to live forever in their partners’ blind spots? The effect
of this impasse on the black characters is anhedonia, the inability to feel
sexual pleasure.
The play takes place on a former Virginia plantation. Its multiplot design
crosscuts three story lines of conflicted interracial couples: Phillip and
Alana, Gary and Dustin, Kaneisha and Jim. Two supporting characters in a
lesbian interracial coupleship, Teá and Patricia, help build the play’s
tensions, but their relationship never develops into a plot.
The three acts go like this:
Act One—“Work”
Act One plays out three vignettes of sadomasochistic seduction and
copulation. The three couples, dressed in antebellum garb, act out brutal,
sexually raw conflicts that seem genuinely nineteenth century, although
occasional touches of modern music, modern names, and anachronistic
dialogue seep in:
Scene 1: A slave named Kaneisha calls her overseer “Massa Jim” and
asks if he is going to beat her. Jim wonders why she’d think such a thing,
and Kaneisha replies, “You got that whip, ain’tcha?” Jim has had no
training with a whip, so when he tries to crack it, he hits himself in the face.
To seduce him, Kaneisha eats off the floor and twerks.
Scene 2: Alana, a sexually frustrated Southern belle, flounces
seductively on her canopied bed, flourishing a formidable black dildo.
Phillip, her handsome, light-skinned slave, services her lust as she forcibly
penetrates his anus with her dildo.
Scene 3: In the plantation’s barn, Dustin, a white indentured servant,
bales hay in the shadow of Gary, a threatening black overseer. As Dustin
rebels, the violence morphs into virtual rape. When Dustin licks Gary’s
boots, Gary comes, then breaks into tears.
Suddenly, a powerful turning point sends Teá and Patricia, two
clipboard-carrying psychotherapists, bursting into the room, revealing that
the three vignettes were actually exercises in sex therapy for interracial
couples.
Act Two—“Process”
The psychologists believe that their radical remedy, known as Antebellum
Sexual Performance Therapy, cures anhedonia as it “helps black partners
reengage intimately with the white partners from whom they no longer
receive sexual pleasure.” But as Teá and Patricia “process” the three
couples through their slave-master experiences, the real selves behind Act
One’s sadomasochistic fantasy roles look each other in the eye and inflict
pains far worse than whips, boots, and dildoes. One by one, the six deliver
cutting insights into the clashes between their real-life selves and their
hidden selves, between what terrifies them and what tantalizes them.
This, for example, from the usually reticent Phillip: “So, like, are you
saying that my… um… the reason I can’t get it up… the reason I don’t
come is because of… just, like, racism?” Throughout the play, lines like this
inflict the pleasures of pain, causing delight and damage.
As Act Two builds, psychotherapy becomes psychotorture. Rather than
curing racist wounds, the therapeutic experiment inflames them. Partner
turns on partner; the “process” crashes and burns; masks fall; core selves
strip naked. The Phillip-Alana and Gary-Dustin plots climax to bring down
the Act Two curtain. This leaves Kaneisha-Jim, the play’s dominant story
line, to carry Act Three.
Act Three—“Exorcise”
The last act paints a fierce portrait of a racial dilemma. Alone in a bedroom
with Jim, Kaneisha struggles to understand her visceral distaste for her
husband. He worries that the therapy traumatized her, and he’s right but for
reasons he doesn’t understand.
Initially Kaneisha was attracted to Jim’s whiteness because he’s British
and so unmarred by American prejudices. In time, she came to realize that
because he’s white, he carries an invisible whip, and because she’s black,
her hands are empty. The power is his, just as simple as that. This hard truth
he denies. She wants him to see it; he won’t listen.
At the play’s climax, they suddenly replay their sadomasochistic master
and slave selves from Act One. When their rape improv becomes too
violent, Kaneisha shouts the safe word. As they slowly return to normal, she
thanks him for listening. Curtain.
The play reveals the characters’ dual identities, dividing them into Act
One’s symbolic selves, contradicted by Act Two’s core selves, merged in
Act Three as their core selves fuse with their symbolic selves—two
completed characters.
Cast
To shape his cast, Jeremy Harris created a spectrum of character awareness
ranging from sharp insight to dull blindness. At one end stands Kaneisha,
who’s painfully self-aware and black; at the far end is Jim, who’s happily
self-deceived and white. The other six roles symbolize various mental types
along a continuum of attitudes toward blackness: Gary hates being black;
Patricia ignores her blackness; Teá intellectualizes her blackness; Phillip
transcends blackness; Dustin loves blackness; Alana finds blackness erotic.
Before we map the cast, let’s review the eight roles from least complex
to the most.
Patricia and Teá
Patricia and Teá, a duet of therapists, speak in mind-numbing psychobabble.
When they refer to feelings, they talk about “processing materials in
psychic spaces and communication spheres.” They indulge in jargon such
as “materiality” and “positionality.” Black people become “minoritarians”;
white society is “heteropatriarchal.”
The team researches the abrasive effects of racism, then re-inflicts them
on their subjects with blindly dangerous experiments. Although they seem
empathetic and caring, the real reason they take notes on psychological pain
is to gather data for monographs. To them, science outweighs solace. This
inner/outer contradiction between seemingly sensitive beliefs and
insensitive science strikes the first dimension in both women.
A second contradiction between true character and characterization,
between reality and appearance adds a layer of complexity to each. The
light-brown-skinned Patricia secretly feels she’s white, mirroring Dustin
who’s white but claims he’s black. The coolly professional but inwardly
troubled Teá wishes she were, like Phillip, detached. These unfulfilled
wishes give both women their second dimension: a secure professional self
versus an insecure personal self.
Phillip
Phillip is powerfully built, mixed-race, model handsome, educated but none
too bright. Alana, his white girlfriend, talks for him, keeping him in the
background. He believes race doesn’t matter and sees himself as a
“superhuman dude beyond black and white.” Stuck between his dominating
partner and his a-racial identity, he suffers anhedonia. His core dimension
makes him sexy to behold but at heart unsexed.
Alana
In Act One, Alana plays a nervous, horny, wild plantation dominatrix who
yearns to sodomize her house slave and does, confessing, “It was hot for
me, really hot.” During the next act, however, she reverts to a hand-raising,
note-taking student. When this A-type perfectionist finally glimpses the
truth of her relationship, that her deliberate blindness to Phillip’s race has
ruined their love, she suddenly retreats into denial, repeating “It wasn’t
racial” like a mantra.
Her dimensions pit curiosity against self-deception, and a
hypercontrolled manner against an out-of-control sex drive.
Gary
Gary hates being black. His stifled, lifelong, slow-burning rage hides
behind a mask of quiet resentment. In Act One’s fantasy play, he forces
Dustin, his lover of nearly a decade, to lick his boots, and then comes in a
shuddering climax. His core dimension pits inner rage against outer cool.
Dustin
Dustin hates being white. He could be Hispanic or Sicilian but swears he’s
black. His partner, Gary, can’t see him as anything but white; still, the
narcissistic Dustin argues that the evidence is obvious. When finally forced
to confront his truth, Dustin throws a diva tantrum, shouting, “There are
shades between!” He wears his dimension on his sleeve: a white man
insisting he’s black.
Jim
In Act One, Jim plays Kaneisha’s reluctant master, but when he orders her
to eat off the floor, he shivers with lust. He calls her his “queen” and that,
by implication, makes him a king, and kings rule queens.
In the play’s last minutes, the truth he’s been suppressing arcs into
awareness: A white man always has greater power. Finally, he hears
Kaneisha plead and gives her the rough sex she wants. As he assured her,
“We’re on the same ground. Only difference is, I am, you know, your
manager.” An inner dimension cuts through Jim: Consciously he loves his
wife; subconsciously he loves punishing her.
Kaneisha
White demons haunt Kaneisha. Nonetheless, in Act One’s fantasy play, she
begs Jim to call her “negress.” Then mingling fear with lust, she slips into
the role of “bed wench.” In Act Three, she takes their role-playing even
further, forcing Jim to admit that, although genuinely loving, he is a sadistic
white devil. As she lures him into playing that part, she arcs from fantasy to
reality, revealing that the masochist she portrayed in Act One is in fact her
true self. As the contradiction between her improv self and her true self
dissolves, she ends the play a completed character.
Given these relationships, the play’s cast map looks like this:
Racist society forms the third circle.
Teá and Patricia (sensitive/insensitive, secure/insecure) are on opposite
sides of the second circle.
This surrounds three separate inner circles: one containing Gary/Dustin
(inner rage / outer cool, hates white / hates black); another with
Phillip/Alana (sexed/unsexed, sighted/blind, overcontrolled/out-of-control);
and a third holding Kaneisha/Jim (self-aware/self-deceived,
loving/punishing, sadist/masochist) that’s slightly larger than the other two
to signify that theirs is the central plot.
Conclusion
Slave Play’s title nails its meaning: Slavery puts sadomasochism into
action. The massive wealth that slavery created was simply the side effect
of mankind’s darkest desire. Money is a means, not an end. The deep-seated
cause of slavery—or, for that matter, the oppression of any underclass—is
the lust for power and the pleasure of pain, aka sadomasochism.
Flash back to the issue of motivation raised in Chapter Eight: “Why do
people do the things they do?” Over the centuries, philosophers and
psychologists have sought a single grand answer to that grand question.
Sigmund Freud said it was all about sex; Alfred Adler said it was all about
power; Ernest Becker said it was all about death. When you think about it,
sex and power are actually about death—just two ways to either defeat it by
reproducing yourself or control it by defeating your enemies. So I go with
Becker.
Sadomasochism follows this path: Fear is a trembling emotion that grips
us when we don’t know what’s going to happen. Dread is a terrible
awareness that floods the mind when we know what’s going to happen, but
there’s nothing we can do to stop it. At an early age, we discover that death
is a fact of life. Sooner or later, we’re going to die and there’s nothing we
can do to change that fact. Some handle death-dread better than others, but
all feel it.
At some point, a child may discover that power makes her feel better…
at least for the moment. Perhaps she crushes the life out of an insect and
suddenly feels a rush of pleasure. For an instant, a godlike power over life
and death ignites her body. She wants to repeat that pleasure, more and
more often, to a greater and greater degree. As she seeks power, her
personality—at times, at least—leans toward the sadistic, toward someone
who bends the dread of death to her will by usurping power over death.
Slave owners felt that rush every day; the ultrarich still do.
Or, perhaps the child discovers that she is powerless and always will be
but can still enjoy an escape from the anxiety of death if she shelters in the
shadow of someone powerful. So long as that person exhibits their power
by making her suffer, she feels the masochistic comfort of a temporary
release from dread, aka the pleasure of pain. Slaves felt that thrill when they
bowed to their masters; employees still feel it when they applaud their
boss.1
Harris’s drama speaks wisely and wittily about personal politics. As will
your writing, if you give power room to play. For no matter how you set up
your story—a cast of thousands to a pair of lovers—power will ebb and
flow. Weigh, therefore, the balance of power in your cast members as you
open the telling, then follow the dynamic of change (Who’s up? Who’s
down?) to the final scene. Playing with power as you shape a cast often
inspires the unexpected.

CASE STUDY: “BLOODCHILD”
A short story by Octavia E. Butler
“Bloodchild” tells a love story between species.
Isaac Asimov’s Science Fiction Magazine published it in 1984. In the
years since, it has won both Hugo and Nebula awards; Locus and Science
Fiction Chronicle have also named it Best Novelette.2
Backstory
Generations ago, the vestiges of humanity migrated to a planet inhabited by
the Tlic, gigantic insects that reproduce by injecting their eggs into animals.
When the earthlings landed, the Tlic realized that the human body is the
perfect incubation host. The Tlic government then built an encapsulated
preserve to protect humans from the planet’s egg-laying hordes, but as quid
pro quo for survival, each family must select one of its own to bear a Tlic’s
larvae. The chance of dying when these worms hatch and eat their way out
of the host’s body is great. Humanity agreed to the deal.
Lien, a widow with four children, chose Gan, her youngest son, to bear
the eggs of T’Gatoi, a high government official. T’Gatoi is a loving creature
who befriended the family years ago, visiting daily, providing them with the
comforts of mildly narcotic drugs. She feels a special maternal caring for
Gan.
Story
Inciting incident: The day arrives when the body of someone in Lien’s
family must accept T’Gatoi’s eggs. Gan is intensely aware that when his
mother was pregnant, she selected him for this duty. His feelings wait in
limbo and confusion. Gan’s two sisters, however, feel that hosting Tlic eggs
would be an honor, while their older brother, Qui, hates the idea. He once
witnessed a man die in agony as larvae ate their way out of him.
Ideally, when the eggs hatch and their worms emerge, the Tlic performs
a kind of cesarean section on the human, passing the hungry worms into
some animal flesh, saving the host’s life. Indeed, that afternoon Bram, a
pregnant man who’s been abandoned by his Tlic, bangs on their door and
T’Gatoi performs the emergency operation. Gan helps save the man by
shooting an animal kept on the preserve and providing nonhuman food for
the emerging larvae.
As T’Gatoi pulls worm after worm from the man’s body, Gan witnesses
the blood-soaked surgery and the victim’s hideous suffering. He is so
repulsed, he contemplates suicide rather than impregnation. Afterward,
T’Gatoi, who must lay her eggs that night, gives him a way out and asks if
he would rather have her impregnate one of his sisters.
Now in crisis, Gan must choose: risk a sister’s life to save himself or
risk his own life as an act of honor and manhood. He chooses to accept his
fate and offers his body out of love for his family, humanity, and T’Gatoi.
As T’Gatoi impregnates Gan, she lovingly promises she will never abandon
him.
Cast
Short stories don’t offer the pages necessary to develop a complex cast of
great size. In this telling, only Gan and T’Gatoi are complex; the rest have
nicely drawn characterizations but no dimensions.
Gan
Gan narrates the story in the first person, giving us access to his inner
conflicts and the three dimensions that span within him.
1. He’s fearful yet brave. Terror grips him, but his untapped courage
waits in reserve.
2. He’s self-preserving yet self-sacrificing. He fights against his fate
for selfish reasons but finally surrenders to it for moral reasons.
3. He’s a child on the cusp of maturity. His opening words set the story
with “My last night of childhood…”
T’Gatoi
This nine-foot-tall segmented insect has multiple limbs on each segment
and a stinger in her tail that puts people to sleep. Her long friendship with
Lien and her wise, patient devotion to Gan gives her a grandmotherly aura.
At the same time, however, her genes are driving her to reproduce. She, too,
has three dimensions:
1. She’s kind but autocratic. Like a zookeeper, T’Gatoi is a generous,
caring protector, but also the master of her human charges.
2. She soothes pain yet causes pain. T’Gatoi knows the dread, even
death, her species causes human beings. So her guilty conscience
moves her to pacify the fear and anxiety in Lien’s family with gifts
of narcotic pills and injections.
3. She cares but kills. She loves Lien’s family, especially Gan, but will
end their lives, if necessary, to secure the survival of her species.
The other cast members have no dimensions, just one distinctive trait
each.
Lien
Trait: Sadness. The widow Lien knows that her son or one of her daughters
will be impregnated with T’Gatoi’s larvae that evening, and there’s nothing
she can do to stop it. A mood of pained resignation seems to age her.
Qui
Trait: Anger. Qui rebels, furious that human beings must submit to Tlic
rule.
Gan’s sisters
Trait: Submission. Gan’s sisters take the opposite view. They believe that
being chosen for a Tlic impregnation is a privilege.
Bram
Trait: Terror. Bram screams in a panic as the worms inside him burst out of
their shells.
T’Khotgif
Trait: Personal concern. The Tlic who impregnated Bram hurries to him.
Doctor
Trait: Professional concern. He helps T’Gatoi save Bram.
Conclusion
Science Fiction is a presentational genre, home to any of the sixteen
primary genres. In the case of “Bloodchild,” Gan arcs along an Evolution
Plot from immaturity to maturity.
Sci-Fi’s distinguishing convention is its setting. Its temporal location
may or may not be futuristic, but its society is somehow warped (even
dystopian).3 This disturbance in the natural social order began in the
backstory when human folly misused science.
In “Bloodchild,” the author never tells us what global catastrophe caused
the cast’s ancestors to abandon Earth, but their migration reversed nature’s
balance. On planet Earth, humanity was the dominant species that used
various subspecies as food, clothing, and pets. On planet Tlic, human
beings are reduced to a subspecies, useful as a nesting place for eggs.
If Science Fiction is your genre, then like Octavia Butler, use its power
to invert reality to create an empathetic cast in an unpredictable story that
warns of things to come.
CASE STUDY: BREAKING BAD
The longform series is a unique medium, as different from prose as cinema
is from theatre. Longform tellings, with their open episodes and open
seasons, put mammoth casts through years of screen performance. To the
writer, longform offers the opportunity to create characters of
dimensionality and complexity beyond the reach of any other storytelling
form. So before we unravel Breaking Bad, let’s take a brief look at the
medium that made it possible.
The Effects of Length and Cast Size
The smaller the cast, the fewer the relationships between characters, and
therefore, the less numerous and various their tactics, behaviors, and
desires. The fewer the scenes and less the diverse their turning points, the
fewer the choices and actions its characters must make and take. For these
reasons, the casts of one-act plays, short stories, short films, and comic
books are limited in number and dimensionality.
Conversely, the larger the cast, the greater the ramifications of character
relationships and dimensions. In addition, the more numerous and diverse
the scenes and the longer the performance time, the greater the variety of
desires, choices, and actions characters must take and make. As a result, the
casts that fill novels, as well as full-length dramas, comedies, and musicals
onstage and on-screen tend to be rich in variety and psychological
complexity.
Longform screen works, by reason of cast size and years of
performance, take the art of story into complexities of character beyond the
scope of any other medium. A thousand-page novel or epic saga, for
example, contains about the same event and character development as a
single season of longform. Multiseason storytelling tests an author’s limits
of insight, memory, and human feeling. Therefore, the herculean task for
the longform writer is holding viewers’ interest in a vast cast of characters
through fifty to one hundred episodes told over five to ten years.
The Two Modes of Interest
A story compels interest by drawing on the reader’s or audience’s conscious
curiosity and subconscious concern.
Curiosity: the intellectual need to answer questions, solve puzzles and
problems, close open patterns, and learn the hows and whys of a character’s
life.
Concern: the emotional need to experience the positive charge of values
—life, not death; love, not hate; justice, not injustice; peace, not war; good,
not evil; and the like.
Neither curiosity nor concern, however, will hold interest if an audience
cannot identify with at least one major character in the cast. In fact, the
ideal longform work draws empathy to many centers of good, not only in
the central plot’s protagonist but in the protagonists of subplots as well.
A story’s major dramatic question is a specific variation on the universal
question “How will this turn out?” MDQs such as “Will Ragnar Lothbrok
conquer England?” in Vikings or “Will Kendall Roy take over his father’s
business empire?” in Succession hook and hold its audience’s curiosity over
years.
However, the greatest magnetic force, the one that grips the deepest
interest over the longest stretches of time, arises from the psychological
depths of major characters in longform tellings. Like the allure of the ocean,
the inner lives of complex characters fascinate the audience, inducing
multihour binges as they discover unforeseen traits, marvel at
contradictions between public selves and core selves, and most important,
follow the protagonist’s arc until she completes herself with moral, mental,
or humanistic change.
The point to remember: Revelation and evolution hold longform
audiences to the screen over years of time. What kills that long-term
interest? Repetitiousness and rigidity. Once a protagonist has nothing left to
reveal, once she is no longer capable of change, once she is emptied out and
her psychology exhausted, her behavior becomes predictable and
monotonous. With that, the audience dwindles.
Consider Dexter: This eight-season series ran on Showtime from 2006
to 2013. Season 1 sets up Dexter (Michael C. Hall) as a psychopathic
vigilante hiding behind a likable characterization. Devoid of emotion,
compassion, or conscience, he comes to life only in the midst of murder.
The next three seasons, however, give Dexter compassion for children,
feelings of romantic love, and guilt over unintended consequences. That
completes him; everything knowable about Dexter was known by the end of
Season 4. Seasons 5 to 8 neither revealed previously unseen traits nor
changed his psychology. Plot twists proliferated, but Dexter stagnated until
his diehard audience gave up. I hope its proposed renewal as a 10-episode
miniseries in Fall 2021 manages the character arc its audience has long
desired.
Fifty to one hundred hours of longform performance calls for a
protagonist whose complexity goes far beyond three dimensions.
Breaking Bad
by Vince Gilligan
Breaking Bad ran for sixty-two episodes over five seasons. Its creator
titled the series after a Southernism that means taking your life down an
immoral, violent road. Gilligan sold the series with the now-famous four-
word pitch describing the story’s arc: “Mr. Chips goes Scarface.”
It has a central plot, twenty-five subplots, and a cast of more than eighty
speaking roles. In 2013, the Guinness Book of World Records declared
Breaking Bad the highest-rated screen series ever. The three lead actors won
nine Emmys among them, while the show itself won another seven Emmys
and two Golden Globes as well as two Peabodys, two Critics’ Choice
Awards, four Television Critics Association awards, and three Satellite
awards.
A series prequel, Better Call Saul, debuted in 2015, and a movie sequel,
El Camino, premiered in 2019.
Backstory
Walter White (Bryan Cranston), a polymath scientist, and Gretchen (Jessica
Hecht), his girlfriend, teamed with Elliot Schwartz (Adam Godley) to found
Gray Matter Technologies. After a falling-out, Walt sold his share and quit.
Elliott and Gretchen persevered, and exploiting Walt’s corporate-owned
inventions, built a highly successful company. In time, Elliott and Gretchen
married.
Walt, embittered by his failures, became an Albuquerque high school
teacher, married Skyler (Anna Gunn), and fathered two children.
Season 1
Although never a smoker, Walt discovers he has inoperable stage-3 lung
cancer. To secure his family’s future before he dies, Walt turns to a life of
crime. He coerces a former student, Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul), to work
with him cooking methamphetamine. Jesse buys an old RV to serve as their
kitchen. In it, Walt uses commonplace chemicals to create a powerful blue-
tinted meth.
When Jesse tries to sell their drug on the street, Emilio (John Koyama)
and Krazy-8 (Maximino Arciniega), two low-level drug dealers, horn in.
Walt lures them to the RV where he poisons one and later garrotes the other.
Walt and Jesse then go into business with Tuco Salamanca (Raymond
Cruz), a ruthless, virtually insane gangster.
Season 2
A deadly shoot-out with Tuco leaves Walt and Jesse without a distributor,
so they find their way to a criminal lawyer, Saul Goodman (Bob Odenkirk)
who hooks them up with a major drug dealer, Gus Fring (Giancarlo
Esposito). Gus pays them a huge sum, and Walt adopts the street name
“Heisenberg.” The DEA, led by Walt’s brother-in-law Hank Schrader (Dean
Norris), begins to investigate this mysterious crime boss.
Jesse falls in love with Jane Margolis (Krysten Ritter), a heroin addict,
and becomes addicted himself. Walt refuses to give Jesse half of Gus’s
money until he gets off drugs. Jane tries to blackmail Walt into paying up,
but she passes out on heroin, and then chokes to death on her own vomit
while Walt watches silently from across the room. Walt gets Jesse into
rehab. A few days later, he witnesses the midair collision of two passenger
jets over the city—a tragedy caused by Jane’s distraught, air-traffic
controller father, Donald (John de Lancie). The blame is Walt’s.
Season 3
At home, Walt’s marriage falls apart. When Skyler seeks a divorce, Walt
reveals his secret criminal life, pleading that he did it for his family. Skyler,
in revenge, seduces her boss, then taunts Walt with her affair.
Walt and Jesse go to work for Gus, cooking meth in a hidden high-tech
lab. Soon after, two cartel assassins, seeking revenge for Tuco, attack Hank.
He dispatches them and survives, although temporarily paralyzed.
Jesse rebels against Gus because he uses children to sell drugs on the
street. Gus replaces Jesse with Gale Boetticher (David Costabile). Walt
fears that once Gale learns to cook on his own, Gus will kill both him and
Jesse. He tells Jesse to kill Gale, and Jesse does.
Season 4
Gus puts Walt and Jesse back to work cooking meth. Skyler accepts Walt’s
criminal enterprise and, with Saul’s help, buys a car wash to launder Walt’s
earnings.
Gus wipes out his enemies in Mexico, then turns against Walt. Walt
seduces Jesse into murdering Gus. Their first attempt fails, but when Walt
offers Hector Salamanca (Mark Margolis) a chance to take revenge on Gus,
Hector happily detonates a hidden bomb that kills himself and Gus.
Season 5, Part 1
Walt, Jesse, Mike Ehrmantraut (Jonathan Banks) and Lydia Rodarte-Quayle
(Laura Fraser) partner in the meth business. To get the raw materials they
need, the men pull off a train heist. Jesse and Mike want to sell their share
to Declan (Louis Ferreira), a Phoenix drug dealer, but Walt refuses. Instead,
he cooks for Lydia, who distributes the meth in Europe. She is so successful
Walt makes more money than he can count. To end the squabble and finally
retire from the drug business, Walt kills Mike and hires Jack (Michael
Bowen) and his Nazi biker gang to kill Mike’s associates. Hank, by chance,
discovers that Walt is Heisenberg.
Season 5, Part 2
When Hank confronts Walt, Walt backs him down. Hank then turns to
Skyler, but she refuses to betray Walt. Seeing trouble coming, Walt buries
$80 million in the desert.
Jack’s gang kills a rival gang and takes their meth production gear. Walt
tries to negotiate with Jack, but the Nazi gang turns on him, killing Hank,
capturing Jesse, and taking most of Walt’s money.
Walt tries to get Skyler to run off with him, but their marriage ends when
she pulls a knife. At first, Walt hides out, but then he changes course,
coercing Elliott and Gretchen into caring for his children.
At Jack’s gang’s compound, Walt kills Jack and the rest with a remote-
control machine gun and frees the imprisoned Jesse. Wounded, he asks
Jesse to kill him, but Jesse refuses and drives off. Walt takes a moment to
reminisce about his drug empire, then dies.
Cast Design
Third Circle Roles
Third circle characters make no independent decisions. They simply react to
other more prominent characters and carry out tasks that assist or resist
them. Breaking Bad has more than fifty third circle roles. I’ve grouped
some of them around the featured character they serve.
Walt: Carmen, the high school principal; Hugo, the school janitor;
Lawson, the gun dealer; Dr. Delcavoli, the oncologist; Old Joe, the junk
dealer; Declan, a drug dealer.
Jesse: the Pinkman family, Brock, Combo, Adam, Wendy, Group
Leader, Clovis, Emilio, Spooge and his girlfriend, Drew (the kid on a bike).
Skyler: Holly, her baby; Walter Jr.; Walter Jr.’s friend, Louis; Pamela,
her divorce attorney; Bogdan, the car wash owner.
Hank: cops and fellow agents Kalanchoe, Munn, Merkert, Ramey, and
Roberts.
Gus: fellow criminals Max, Gale, Duane, Ron, Barry, Tyrus, Chris,
Dennis, Victor, and Dan.
Hector: fellow gang members Juan, Tuco, Gaff, Gonzo, No-Doze,
Tortuga, and Hector’s retirement home nurse.
Mike: his daughter-in-law, Stacey, and his granddaughter, Kaylee.
Saul: his staff—Huell, Ed, Francesca, and Kuby.
Screenwriters rarely describe third circle roles in any detail. To make
them specific, directors depend on their casting director’s guidance, along
with the costuming and hair styling that gives each role a specific look.
After that, it’s up to the actor to make it work.
Second Circle Roles
Second circle characters are not complex, but occasionally their actions
send story lines in new directions. The writer gives them specific
characterizations, and their actors round them out with intriguing
personalities, but their inner natures are without contradiction and therefore
dimensionless.
Ted Beneke, for example, starts a love affair with Skyler, who ultimately
gives him millions from Walter’s stash. Gretchen and Elliot Schwartz make
themselves rich after Walter quits their company. Donald Margolis causes a
tragic air disaster in the aftermath of his daughter’s death. Walter’s deeds
influence these characters, but they have the final say in the direction their
lives take.
The Breaking Bad cast has seventeen second circle roles:
1. Steve Gomez (Steven Michael Quezada), Hank’s DEA partner
2. Gale Boetticher (David Costabile), Gus’s meth cook
3. Eladio Vuente (Steven Bauer), major cartel boss
4. Hector Salamanca (Mark Margolis), former drug kingpin
5. Tuco Salamanca (Raymond Cruz), drug kingpin
6. Leonel Salamanca (Daniel Moncada), assassin
7. Marco Salamanca (Luis Moncada), assassin
8. Krazy-8 Molina (Maximino Arciniega), drug dealer
9. Jack Welker (Michael Bowen), white supremacist gang leader
10. Andrea Cantillo (Emily Rios), Jesse’s girlfriend
11. Jane Margolis (Krysten Ritter), Jesse’s girlfriend
12. Badger Mayhew (Matt L. Jones), Jesse’s crew
13. Skinny Pete (Charles Baker), Jesse’s crew
14. Ted Beneke (Christopher Cousins), Skyler’s boss and lover
15. Donald Margolis (John de Lancie), Jane’s father
16. Gretchen Schwartz (Jessica Hecht), Walter’s former lover
17. Elliot Schwartz (Adam Godley), Walter’s former business partner
First Circle Roles
First circle characters often become the protagonists of their own subplots.
They have the power and opportunity to make decisions and take major
actions that affect the central plot and other story lines. Breaking Bad has
ten complex first circle characters:
Todd: One-Dimensional
Characterization: Todd (Jesse Plemons) is a well-mannered young man who
uses violence quickly and efficiently, killing and torturing without
hesitation or remorse. He’s a Hannibal Lecter without the IQ—creepy,
calm, and unnecessarily polite.
True character: the ultimate sociopath.
Todd helps the audience measure the limits of Walt’s evil.
Sociopathology runs a spectrum of severity from mild to craven. Walt is
sociopathic but only to a degree; Todd waits at the dark extreme. Walt takes
no pleasure in the suffering he causes; Todd thrives on cruelty. Walt has
feelings, even passions; Todd none.
Dimension: Polite/Pitiless.
Lydia Rodarte-Quayle: One-Dimensional
Characterization: Lydia (Laura Fraser) is a tense, aloof, corporate executive.
True character: She steals raw materials from her company and sells
them to drug dealers. A thief and loner with no relationships, she will kill
anyone in her way.
Dimension: Refined/Brutal.
Mike Ehrmantraut: One-Dimensional
Characterization: Mike (Jonathan Banks) adores his granddaughter as he
executes his crime craft with calculated efficiency.
True character: For Mike, breaking the law is just another way to make a
living. Loyal to his employer and employees, he never harms innocent
bystanders. He’s a criminal antihero with a code of honor.
Dimension: Warm-blooded/Cold-blooded.
Saul Goodman: One-Dimensional
Characterization: Saul (Bob Odenkirk) is flamboyant in dress, outrageous in
a courtroom, self-marketed in blaring TV commercials. He leverages the
ludicrous in desperate situations; his sarcasm provides the show’s comic
relief.
True character: His real name is Jimmy McGill, but he took “Saul
Goodman” because people trust Jewish attorneys. Saul is a skilled lawyer
who gives sound advice and finds ingenious loopholes to solve his clients’
villainous problems.
He also provides services such as evidence removal, loot stashing, false
bank accounts, false documents, bribery, intimidations, relocation, and other
crimes-for-hire.
Dimension: Criminal/Lawyer.
Marie Schrader: Two-Dimensional
Characterization: Marie (Betsy Brandt), a medical technician who loves her
husband, Hank, her sister’s family, and all things purple.
True character: She’s a kleptomaniac who fills her empty life with the
excitement of petty thefts. She feels dependent on her husband and morally
inferior to her sister. When Skyler’s crimes are exposed, she glows with
moral superiority. When her husband dies, she finds great personal power
and independence.
Dimensions: Dependent/Independent, Weak/Powerful.
Walter White Jr.: Two-Dimensional
Characterization: Walter Jr. (R. J. Mitte) is a teenager with cerebral palsy.
True character: Caught between battling parents, the boy’s loyalty shifts
from his mother to his father and back again. When hit by the discovery that
his father is a meth dealer who killed his uncle, he rolls with the shock, then
turns it into his moment of maturation and individuation as he changes from
protected victim to protector of his mother and sister.
Dimensions: Child/Adult, Protected/Protector.
Skyler White: Three-Dimensional
Characterization: Skyler (Anna Gunn) is an attractive housewife and the
mother of a disabled son who earns cash selling items on eBay and working
as a part-time bookkeeper.
True character: Some claim that Skyler is a battered wife who’s been
walking on eggshells throughout her marriage. Others accuse her of
abusing, henpecking, and belittling Walt.
I would argue both are true. Like many marriages, Walt and Skyler are
mutually abusive and mutually supportive. Secretly, each feels superior to
the other; both feel humiliated by life (he more than she); each takes life’s
disappointments out on the other.
But then comes Walter’s cancer, followed by his secret criminal life.
Skyler strikes back by seducing her boss. Then, when Walt’s crimes bring in
millions, Skyler excuses him, rationalizing that he did it for the family. She
launders the loot and creates the videotape that coerces Hank into silence.
Some might call her a Stockholm syndrome victim who identifies with
her oppressor, but if she were really a battered wife, how did she become
the fast-thinking, cool-headed businesswoman who launders millions
through her car wash scam?
These contradictions reveal a complex character whose mind can twist
negatives into positives, such as “This is bad but not that bad. Walt
promises to give up crime, so if I can launder the money, the other problems
will disappear, and Walt will be Walt again. It’s just a phase.”
With the exception of Walter Jr., most Breaking Bad characters are either
immoral, morally elastic, or, like Skyler, morally split: Intellectually she
knows right from wrong, but emotionally she has no center. If she can get
away with crime, she’s happy to be a criminal. She drifts with her feelings,
then acts.
Dimensions: Rational/Emotional, Loving/Punishing, Moral/Immoral.
Gus Fring: Three-Dimensional
Characterization: Gus (Giancarlo Esposito) is a Chilean-born, well-
mannered restaurant owner, civic leader, and philanthropic sponsor of an
antidrug charity. He’s generous, straightforward, and pro–law enforcement.
True character: Gus runs his crime enterprise through the cold-blooded
execution of Machiavellian stratagems. The inner force that drives him is
revenge for the murder of Max, his lover and partner in crime.
Dimensions: Outer Good / Inner Evil, Low Key in public / High Key in
private, Straightforward/Scheming.
Hank: Four-Dimensional
Characterization: To his coworkers, Hank (Dean Norris) radiates the high
energy of a boisterous DEA agent. At home, he collects minerals, brews his
own beer, and loves his wife.
True character: Beneath this flippant, ill-mannered racist lives a skilled
detective. He’s strong around men but weak around women, especially his
wife. His inner nature pits his courage against PTSD and panic attacks,
while he wages a second inner war between his analytical mind and his
explosive temper.
Dimensions: Crass/Intelligent, Weak/Strong, Tough/Panicky,
Analytical/Explosive.
Jesse: Six-Dimensional
Characterization: Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul), Walt’s former student and
cooking partner, talks in playful slang, wears trendy clothes, plays video
games, enjoys parties and techno-toys, listens to rap and rock, and uses
recreational drugs. His own family disowned him over his drug use, but he
loves his girlfriends and protects their endangered children.
True character: Jesse is the only cast member who sees the moral schism
at the heart of Breaking Bad. The moment he kills their rival meth cook, he
realizes his crimes are not acts of self-preservation. He has tied himself to
an evil man, and his series-long struggle to break free arcs him from
immoral to moral and from self-destructive to self-possessed.
Dimensions: Undereducated/Street-smart, Impulsive/Cautious,
Hedonistic/Stoic, Shy/Bold, Weak-willed/Strong-willed, Risks his life for
money / Then throws it away.
A character of this complexity needs a large supporting cast to bring out
his multitude of outer traits, plus his six dimensions and arc of change, all
told over extensive performance time. The first, second, and third circle
characters who surround and interact with Jesse number into the dozens.
Walter White: Sixteen-Dimensional
Characterization: Walt (Bryan Cranston) is a fifty-year-old failed scientist
turned high school teacher. He’s dedicated to his profession and uses his
logical, eclectic knowledge to enrich his teaching. At home, he’s a kind
husband and father, suffering from lung cancer.
The Six Dimensions of Jesse Pinkman
Map of Jesse’s Redemption Plot
True character: Walt begins as an incomplete character driven by a need
for an intense experience at the absolute limits of human possibility. He’s a
fiercely proud egoist craving recognition. His nonstop lies provide him with
rationalizations for the cruelest of actions. In his self-deceived mind, he’s an
apostle of family values, free enterprise, and scientific progress. In fact, he’s
ruthless and violent, killing with little regret as he dreams of building his
crime empire.
The Sixteen Dimensions of Walter White
Dimensions: Walt’s sixteen dimensions divide into contradictions of
characterization versus true self and contradictions of true self versus
hidden self.
Dimensions: Characterization Versus True Self
1. Family man yet sociopath.
2. Gentle yet violent.
3. Workingman yet entrepreneur. He’s a teacher who builds a drug
empire worth hundreds of millions.
4. Scientific yet criminal. For some naïve reason, we tend to believe
that scientists are moral. Walt is a lethal nerd, the kind of nerd who
makes other nerds proud.
5. Apologetic yet never really sorry.
6. He imposes strict rules on others yet doesn’t hesitate to break the
law.
7. He demands loyalty yet betrays virtually everyone.
8. He demands the truth yet lies nonstop with consummate skill.
9. He idealizes the way science enriches life yet corrupts science to
destroy human beings.
These contradictions are not Walter’s most profound dimensions
because they only contradict his characterization with his true character.
The deepest dimensions do not show on the surface of behavior. They can
be only implied beneath a character’s actions.
Dimensions: Private Self Versus Hidden Self
1. Because he’s dying of cancer, he risks his life without hesitation, yet
because he’s dying of cancer, he loves life and strives to live it to the
limit.
2. He’s rational yet impulsive; he carefully estimates the odds, then
gambles with his life against all odds.
3. He’s emotionally cool yet explodes in high anger and grief when he
can’t get his way.
4. He’s self-confident and proud yet self-doubting and humble.
5. He has penetrating insight into other people but virtually no self-
awareness.
6. He loves his family and devotes himself to their well-being. Yet to
satisfy his narcissistic needs, he constantly puts his family in life-
and-death danger, as well as his partner, Jesse, and his brother-in-
law, Hank. In the conflict between self and others, he consistently
chooses self.
7. Primary dimension: His greatest inner contradiction is between
himself and his alter ego, between who he thinks he is and who he
really is, between Walt and Heisenberg.
Walt tries to compartmentalize these two guys: the cold, calculating drug
dealing Heisenberg on one side, and the well-meaning father and husband
Walter White on the other. For example, when he begs Jack to save Hank’s
life, he’s Walt, but when he tells Jack to kill Jesse, he’s Heisenberg.
The Walter White side kidnaps Holly because his infant daughter is the
only person left in his life who might someday love him, but thanks to her,
he finally sees the truth. He realizes that he did not do it for his family; he
did it for his true self, for Heisenberg. When he returns Holly to her mother,
he throws away his last piece of Walt. From that point on, he’s all
Heisenberg.
The creation of sixteen dimensions in Breaking Bad’s protagonist
needed sixty-two hours of constant interaction between Walter White and
one of the largest supporting casts in storytelling history. To help make
sense of this mass, I’ve reworked Walter’s gangster plot map, putting all the
characters who help his enterprise in the first circle, all the characters who
hinder his venture in the second ring, Skyler as both in between, and the
cops and gangster cohorts in the outer reaches.
Walter’s Gangster Plot
Walter White’s Character Arc
I titled the central plot of Breaking Bad The Triumph of Heisenberg.
Heisenberg is not a new self. Walter has suppressed him all his life. Once
he’s finally let out with room to grow, Heisenberg takes on a life of his own.
He destroys Walt and everything Walt values.
On the surface, Breaking Bad’s core story seems to be a Degeneration
Plot that arcs Walt from good guy to bad guy. Some, however, would argue
that the last episodes redeem him.
After five seasons of revelations, we realize that the shambling
classroom nobody he showed his students, the nebbish he was to his
brother-in-law, and the milquetoast who shared a bed with his wife were his
disguise. Heisenberg, his drug lord nom de guerre, is Walt’s true self.
When he cuts the Walter White side out of himself and does terrible
things, he’s fine. At the Season 1 climax, after he kills for the first time, he
comes home to make love to his wife with more passion than he’s ever
known.
But when he tries to cut Heisenberg out of himself, he erupts with rage.
The Breaking Bad climax tilts Walt’s Degeneration Plot toward
Redemption. It resolves the Walter/Heisenberg contradiction by merging the
two into one complete character who does good with the means of evil.
But Walt is not an antihero. He is a Satan-hero who finds fulfillment but
with great irony. He loses everything but gains something few of us ever
know: life lived to the limit of human experience.
Wrap-Up
Breaking Bad’s story-driven meanings and dimensionality of cast are so
powerfully human, the series as written would have been a success at any
time. But why did the series’ stupendous popularity exceed all expectation?
Because, I believe, Vince Gilligan said something that needed saying when
it was said. Gilligan’s Breaking Bad satirizes modern entrepreneurial
ideology.
In 2008 two things happened: the Great Recession and the premiere
season of Breaking Bad. In both worlds, real and fictional, some people get
a lot; the rest get stiffed. In such times, is it any wonder an audience would
empathize with a man who does whatever it takes to win back what he feels
should have been his from the start?
Walt was exiled from the hierarchy of science by the treachery of his
partners and his bitterly stubborn pride. He knows in his heart that he is
superior, and when by chance he discovers his true calling, he fights to
claim his rightful place among the world’s elite. He is an empire builder out
of an Ayn Rand novel, biding his time amid the weaklings, plotting his
revenge.
Using superior technical know-how, Walt creates a start-up company
that makes a boutique product better than the competition. No easy task.
Then this self-made man has to deal with unreliable partners and ruthless
competitors. He is constantly beset by raw material shortages on one hand
and supply-chain problems on the other. Plus that bane of all entrepreneurs:
government regulation. In his case, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency.
Like all self-made men, Walt must deal with stupid people who feel
threatened by his brilliance and cannot grasp his vision.
In Season 1, everyone was a sinner: Marie steals from stores while her
husband bends the law. Virtually the whole cast was composed of criminal
businessmen, criminal lawyers, corrupt cops, drug dealers, and drug
addicts.
So at first Walt’s meth cooking and murder seemed like a matter of
degree. But Vince Gilligan made us realize that degrees matter.
Walter isn’t just another sinner. From his dark soul he unleashes
destruction on the city and his family. He commits multiple murders and
creates drug addicts. Anyone, like Jesse, who sees his true face knows that
he is Satan.
Yet, the genius of the series is that the audience empathizes. We identify
with this Prince of Darkness. Like millions of viewers, Walter bore a
lifetime of deep anger and resentment. He screams at his wife that no one
respects his greatness. Like all those who have been ground down by the
system, Walt’s every action cries: “Recognize me!”
Breaking Bad places Walt in the company of other disrupters and
innovators who started out in garages, then created products that shook up
society. (Not that I’m suggesting Mark Zuckerberg and Steve Jobs are drug
dealers—although their products do seem rather habit-forming.)
Walter White became a satisfying character because he takes care of his
family, saves Jesse’s life, destroys Jack’s Nazi biker gang, and ends his
empire on his terms, not the law’s.
The core genre of Breaking Bad is the Evolution Plot, the positive side
on a humanity arc. Ultimately, Walt’s need for fulfillment of his human
potential and completion of his inner nature is met.

CONCLUSION: THE

REVOLUTIONARY WRITER
The desire to be an artist, to be someone who puts beauty before money,
often brings rejection and with that poverty and with that ridicule. These
fears have broken the will of many a gifted writer. To face them, an author
must become not a rebel but a revolutionary. Rebels resent authority
because they feel unloved, unappreciated. A true revolutionary’s revolution
happens within herself, out of sight and alone. She knows her full worth and
needs no one to tell her what it is. Rebels want to overthrow authority so
they can put themselves in its place. A silent revolutionary has no such
wish; a solitary revolutionary is a humanist.
She’s not fanatic, she’s independent.
She believes in the centrality of human creativity and the highest values
of consciousness, beginning with compassion.
She enjoys good company. In fact, her insights into friends and
acquaintances inspired her first fascinations with character.
She’s skeptical but not cynical. She distains the lies people believe, the
delusions they substitute for reality. Seeing the limits of all groups, all
societies, she frees herself from soil and blood, from blind loyalty to nation,
class, race, party, religion… even family.
She never copies life. Real people may inspire, but they’re only a start
and never enough.
She works to master her craft, letting instinct and insight show the way.
She never settles for surface characterizations. Instead, she explores the
hidden life in ways she never could with anyone she knows to create
characters we would all love to know.
She never shows off. She never pens anything that calls attention to her
writing as writing.
She knows that eccentricity is not originality.
She knows self-knowledge is her truest source of character, so she
spends time within.
She does not limit her sources of inspiration. She pockets ideas
wherever she finds them—in happenings, in other people, in herself.
She explores conflict and revels in complexities.
She illuminates the human spirit in wondrous breadths and profound
depths.
She never ends the storied paths she gives her characters until they
fulfill the promise of their humanity.
The revolutionary writer fills our evenings with delight.
I see the bottom of the last page rising to meet me, so before time runs
out, I lift a glass: Here’s to you, the writers—navigators of story, explorers
of character. May you find your way through the wilds of humankind,
unearth buried treasure, then return safely home again.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
First drafts are not just rough, they’re raw. My thanks to Ashleigh Blake
and the members of the Sherman Library Book Club—Andrea O’Connor,
Suzanne Ashley, Corinne Kevorkian, Catherine D’Andrea—who explored
thick, primitive pages and emerged with idea rescuing insights.
No one has a sharper eye for the flow of logic through a chapter, within
a paragraph or from capital letter to full stop than my editor, Marcia
Freedman. I am, as always, in her debt.
Equally, I thank design artist Oliver Brown for rendering qualities of
cast and character with graphic clarity.
Lastly, if someone reads a first draft and then tells you white lies, it
doesn’t really help. So with deepest gratitude, I thank my friend Christa
Echtle for her immense intelligence and intrinsic honesty.
Discover Your Next Great Read
Get sneak peeks, book recommendations, and news about your favorite
authors.
Tap here to learn more.

ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Robert McKee is a Fulbright Scholar and recipient of an International
Moving Image Book Award. Programs he wrote and presented for British
television have been twice nominated for the BAFTA, and this award was
given to J’Accuse: Citizen Kane. His pilot screenplay Abraham launched
the TV series The Bible. McKee has lectured on the art of storytelling
throughout the world. His former students have won more than 60
Academy Awards, 200 Emmy Awards, 100 WGA awards, and 50 DGA
awards, along with the Pulitzer and Booker Prizes.
Also by Robert McKee
Story: Substance, Structure, Style, and the Principles of Screenwriting
Dialogue: The Art of Verbal Action for Page, Stage, and Screen
Storynomics

GLOSSARY
Action: Anything a character does mentally or physically in a purposeful
effort to cause change.
Activity: Anything a character does without purpose. Purposeless deeds
and thoughts kill time but change nothing.
Agent Self: That aspect of the mind that carries out a character’s actions.
The agent self does what the core self wants done while the core self
sits back, observant and aware. The core self calls its agent self “I”
as in “I did that; I’m doing this; I will get that done.”
Allegorical Character: A role that represents a specific facet of a universal
concept. If, for example, an author wanted to dramatize the idea of
Creativity, each cast member might symbolize one of the arts:
Poetry, Painting, Dance, Music, Sculpture, Cinema, Theatre, and the
like.
Archetypal Character: A role that symbolizes a universal concept.
Archetypal characters stand for ideals such as Motherhood, Time,
Power, Goodness, Evil, Life, Death, and Immortality, in their purest
form.
Cast Map: A display of cast relationships. This graphic maps how
characters counterpoint one another’s traits and activate one
another’s dimensions.
Center of Good: A positive quality deep within a primary character.
Attributes such as courage, kindness, strength, wisdom, and honesty,
usually found in a protagonist, draw a sense of empathy from
readers and audiences. This positive center becomes all the more
magnetic when it contrasts with negative charges in other cast
members or the surrounding society.
Character Complexity: A pattern of consistent contradictions. These
dynamic dimensions structure a character’s outer personality and
inner identity.
Character-driven Story: A story in which the principal characters cause
the major events. External influences drawn from physical, societal,
or coincidental sources have a minor effect.
Characterization: A character’s outer identity. This observable personality
combines all of her physical and vocal traits with all the social and
personal personae her agent self assumes.
Core Self: The voice of the mind. When asked “Who am I?” this center of
conscious answers “Me” as in “It happened to me; it’s happening to
me now; it might happen to me someday.” This core of awareness
observes the agent self as it carries out tasks, and then judges the
results. The observer self also studies the people around it,
remembering past events, anticipating future events, and fantasizing
about impossible events.
Crisis: A protagonist’s final and most powerful confrontation. In this scene,
the story’s maximum forces of antagonism bear down on the
protagonist face-to-face, confronting her with a dilemma of possible
actions. What she chooses to do climaxes the story.
Depth of Character: Submerged currents of desire and awareness. A quiet
stream of knowing flows through the consciousness of profound
characters with even weightier perceptions swirling in the silent
fathoms below. When audiences and readers identify with these
characters, they feel their expansive awareness, read their
unexpressed thoughts, and, deeper yet, sense the subconscious
desires that shine from behind their eyes.
Dimension: A living contradiction. Dimensions pivot a character’s
behaviors between two opposite qualities or traits. For example, a
character who is at times wise but then foolish, who does good then
evil, who is generous to some but selfish to others, who is strong in
one situation but weak in another.
Dramatic Irony: The simultaneous awareness of past, present, and future.
As a reader’s or audience member’s awareness changes from
mystery (knowing less than the characters know) to suspense
(knowing the same as the characters know) to dramatic irony
(knowing more than the characters know), her curiosity shifts from
“What will happen next?” to “How will these characters react when
they discover what I already know?” When a storygoer knows
what’s going to happen to the characters before it happens, her
curiosity morphs into dread and her empathy deepens into
compassion.
Fate: An invisible force that preordains events. Belief in fate arises from
the deterministic view that what happens in life is predestined by a
godlike power and therefore has to happen. Life’s events, no matter
how complex, take one and only one possible course with one and
only one possible outcome. In this view, free will is an illusion.
First-Person Narrator: A voice that tells a fictional story as if it were an
autobiography. The author restricts this narrator’s knowledge to
what one person could know.
Focal Character: The role that draws most interest. A cast’s focal
character is almost always the protagonist, but in rare cases, a
distinctive supporting role can take the spotlight.
Foil Character: A role that illuminates the protagonist. A foil’s contrasting
qualities help define the protagonist, but when necessary, this
character may also explain or interpret a distant or mysterious
protagonist.
Forces of Antagonism: Counteractions that block a character’s desire.
These powers arise from the forces of nature, social institutions,
personal relationships, or dark impulses within the character herself.
Hidden Self: The subconscious mind. Silent, often contradictory drives
percolate below the level of awareness. These psychic energies fuel
an identity (courageous, cowardly, kind, cruel, violent, calm, etc.)
and reveal themselves when a character reacts spontaneously to
sudden pressure.

Inciting Incident: A story line’s first major turning point. Inciting means
“starting with impact”; incident means “event.” This event throws
life radically out of balance and arouses the protagonist’s super-
objective—her desire to restore equilibrium.
Motivation: An innate craving for satisfaction. All-encompassing
motivations such as the need for security, the drive for sex, and the
fear of starvation push a character toward specific desires such as a
gated community, a sensuous lover, a filling meal. Gratification of
these ongoing passions and appetites rarely lasts.
Object of Desire: What the protagonist wants in an effort to restore the
balance of life. It could be something personal or social, mental or
physical.
Plot: A story’s ordering, linking, and weaving of events.
Plot-driven Story: A story in which physical, social, and coincidental
forces cause the major events. Influences drawn from the characters’
desires and resources have a secondary effect.
Point-of-View Character: The role that guides the reader/audience through
the telling. Most stories follow their protagonist from event to event,
but occasionally an author will keep the protagonist at a mysterious
distance and narrate from a supporting character’s point of view.
Presentational Genres: Story types based on form: differing styles, tones,
or media of expression.
Primary Genres: Story types based on content: differing characters,
events, values, emotions.
Reliable Narrator: An honest storytelling voice. When authors narrate
their stories, they invent a third-person voice with a godlike
knowledge of characters and history. When characters narrate, they
speak in a first-person voice with knowledge limited to their
personal experience. In either case, they are reliable if the
reader/audience can trust them not to bend the truth.
Resolution: Any scenes or descriptions that follow the climax of the central
plot.
Reveal: The exposure of a hidden truth.
Scene-Objective: What a character wants in the immediate moment that
will take her a step toward her super-objective.
Service Role: A character whose actions affect the course of a story’s
events.
Stock Role: A character who carries out a task according to her profession
or social position but does not affect the course of events.
Subtext: A character’s unexpressed inner life. Readers and audiences peer
through the surface behaviors (text) of a complex character to
discover these unsaid and unsayable thoughts, feelings, and drives
(subtext).
Super-Objective: The need to rebalance life. From the inciting incident on,
a protagonist’s super-objective inspires her struggle to reach her
object of desire and thus restore life’s equilibrium.
Supporting Role: A character who facilitates scenes but does not affect the
course of events.
Suspense: Emotional curiosity. A combination of rational interest and
empathetic involvement pulls a reader/audience through a story.
Telling: A synonym for story.
Text: The sensory surface of a work of art: words on the pages of a novel,
sounds and images on-screen, actors and sets onstage.
Third-Person Narrator: The voice an author invents to tell her story. This
voice treats a fictional work as if it were the biography of its
characters. Its knowledge ranges from an omniscient comprehension
of a story’s history, setting, and cast to a limited insight into the
inner and outer lives of a single character.
True Character: A character’s inner identity comprised of a triad of selves:
the conscious Core Self, its active Agent Self, and its subconscious
Hidden Self.
Turning Point: An event that changes the value charge in a character’s life
from positive to negative or negative to positive.
Unreliable Narrators: A confused, ignorant, or dishonest storytelling
voice. If an unreliable third-person voice tells a story, he may either
warn the reader that he can’t be trusted or just let her figure it out for
herself. If an unreliable first-person character narrates, she may be
sincere but simply biased or blind to the truth.
Value: A binary of charged experience that can change a human condition
from positive to negative or negative to positive: Life/Death,
Pleasure/Pain, Justice/Injustice, and the like.

NOTES
Chapter One Characters Versus People
1. Forms of Life: Character and Moral Imagination in the Novel, Martin
Price, Yale University Press, 1983.
2. Character and the Novel, W. J. Harvey, Cornell University Press,
1965.
3. Forms of Life: Character and Moral Imagination in the Novel, Martin
Price, Yale University Press, 1983.
4. Aesthetics: A Study of the Fine Arts in Theory and Practice, James K.
Feibleman, Humanities Press, 1968; The Aesthetic Object: An
Introduction to the Philosophy of Value, Elijah Jordan, Principia Press,
1937.
5. Love’s Knowledge: Essays on Philosophy and Literature, Martha C.
Nussbaum, Oxford University Press, 1992.
6. The Art of Fiction, Henry James, 1884; repr., Pantianos Classics, 2018.
7. Forms of Life: Character and Moral Imagination in the Novel, Martin
Price, Yale University Press, 1983.
8. The Journal of Jules Renard, Jules Renard, Tin House Books, 2017.
9. “After Sacred Mystery, the Great Yawn,” a review by Roger Scruton of
Mario Vargas Llosa’s Notes on the Death of Culture, TLS, November
4, 2015.
10. Aesthetics: A Study of the Fine Arts in Theory and Practice, James K.
Feibleman, Humanities Press, 1968.
11. Character and the Novel, W. J. Harvey, Cornell University Press,
1965.
12. Aesthetics: A Study of the Fine Arts in Theory and Practice, James K.
Feibleman, Humanities Press, 1968.
13. Character and the Novel, W. J. Harvey, Cornell University Press,
1965.
Chapter Two The Aristotle Debate
1. The Art of Fiction, Henry James, 1884; repr., Pantianos Classics, 2018.
2. Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship and Travels, Johann Wolfgang von
Goethe, translated by Thomas Carlyle, Ticknor, Reed, and Fields,
1851.
3. Forms of Life: Character and Moral Imagination in the Novel, Martin
Price, Yale University Press, 1983.
Chapter Three An Author Prepares
1. “Dissociating Processes Supporting Causal Perception and Causal
Inference in the Brain,” Matthew E. Roser, Jonathan A. Fugelsang,
Kevin N. Dunbar, et al., Neuropsychology 19, no. 5, 2005.
2. The Story of Art, E. H. Gombrich, Phaidon Press, 1995.
3. The Politics of Myth: A Study of C. G. Jung, Mircea Eliade, and
Joseph Campbell, Robert Ellwood, State University of New York
Press, 1999.
4. Forms of Life: Character and Moral Imagination in the Novel, Martin
Price, Yale University Press, 1983.
Part Two Building a Character
1. Six Plays, August Strindberg, author’s foreword to Miss Julie,
Doubleday, 1955.
Chapter Four Character Inspiration: Outside In
1. My Life in Art, Konstantin Stanislavski, Routledge, 2008.
2. Jaws, Peter Benchley, Ballantine Books, 2013.
3. 45 Years, film adaptation by Andrew Haigh of “In Another Country,” a
short story by David Constantine.
4. On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft, Stephen King, Scribner, 2000.
5. Identity and Story: Creating Self in Narrative, Dan McAdams and
Ruthellen Josselson, The Narrative Study of Lives, vol. 4, American
Psychological Association, 2006.
6. The True Believer: Thoughts on the Nature of Mass Movements, Eric
Hoffer, Harper Perennial Modern Classics, 2010.
Chapter Five Character Inspiration: Inside Out
1. The Art of Fiction, Henry James, 1884; repr., Pantianos Classics, 2018.
2. Connectome: How the Brain’s Wiring Makes Us Who We Are,
Sebastian Seung, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2012; Networks of the
Brain, Olaf Sporns, MIT Press, 2011.
3. The Birth and Death of Meaning: An Interdisciplinary Perspective on
the Problem of Man, Ernest Becker, Free Press, 1971.
4. The Feeling of What Happens: Body and Emotion in the Making of
Consciousness, Antonio Damasio, Mariner Books, 2000.
5. The Self Illusion: How the Social Brain Creates Identity, Bruce Hood,
Oxford University Press, 2012.
6. The Concept of Mind, Gilbert Ryle and Daniel C. Dennett, University
of Chicago Press, 2000.
7. Greek Religion, Walter Burkert, Harvard University Press, 1985.
8. Grecian and Roman Mythology, Mary Ann Dwight, Palala Press,
2016.
9. Thinks…, David Lodge, Viking Penguin, 2001.
10. Incognito, David Eagleman, Pantheon Books, 2011.
11. The Principles of Psychology, William James, vols. 1–2, 1890; repr.,
Pantianos Classics, 2017.
12. Psycho-Analytic Explorations, Donald W. Winnicott, Grove Press,
2019.
13. Consciousness, Susan Blackmore, Oxford University Press, 2005.
14. Hamlet: Poem Unlimited, Harold Bloom, Riverhead Books, 2004.
15. The Rise and Fall of Soul and Self: An Intellectual History of Personal
Identity, Raymond Martin and John Barresi, Columbia University
Press, 2005.
16. The Principles of Psychology, William James, vol. 1, chap. 9, “The
Stream of Thought,” Dover Books, 1950.
17. The Complete Essays, Michel de Montaigne, Penguin Classics, 1993.
18. The Work of the Negative, Andre Green, Free Association Books,
1999.
19. Strangers to Ourselves: Discovering the Adaptive Unconscious,
Timothy D. Wilson, Harvard University Press, 2002.
20. Terrence Rafferty on E. L. Doctorow, New York Times Book Review,
January 12, 2014.
Chapter Six Roles Versus Characters
1. Character and the Novel, W. J. Harvey, Cornell University Press,
1965.
Chapter Seven The Outer Character
1. Philosophical Investigations, Ludwig Wittgenstein, translated by G. E.
M. Anscombe, Macmillan, 1958.
2. Forms of Life: Character and Moral Imagination in the Novel, Martin
Price, Yale University Press, 1983.
3. Ibid.
4. Ibid.
5. Theory of Literature, Rene Wellek and Austin Warren, Harcourt,
Brace, 1956.
6. Character and the Novel, W. J. Harvey, Cornell University Press,
1965.
7. The Time Paradox, Philip Zimbardo and John Boyd, Simon and
Schuster, 2008.
8. Actual Minds, Possible Worlds, Jerome Bruner, Harvard University
Press, 1986.
9. Dialogue: The Art of Verbal Action for Page, Stage, Screen, Robert
McKee, Hachette Book Group / Twelve, 2016.
10. Revolutionary Writing: Reflections of the Revolution in France and the
First Letter on a Regicide Peace, Edmund Burke, 1796.
11. Theophrastus’s full list of character types: the Ironical Man, the
Flatterer, the Garrulous Man, the Boor, the Complaisant Man, the
Reckless Man, the Chatty Man, the Gossip, the Shameless Man, the
Penurious Man, the Gross Man, the Unseasonable Man, the Officious
Man, the Stupid Man, the Surly Man, the Superstitious Man, the
Grumbler, the Distrustful Man, the Offensive Man, the Unpleasant
Man, the Man of Petty Ambition, the Mean Man, the Boastful Man,
the Arrogant Man, the Coward, the Oligarch, the Late-Learner, the
Evil-Speaker, the Patron of Rascals, and the Avaricious Man. For an
amusing explanation of each unpleasantness, read Characters: An
Ancient Take on Bad Behavior, Theophrastus, annotated by James
Romm, Callaway Arts and Entertainment, 2018.
12. The Oxford Handbook of the Five Factor Model, Thomas A. Widiger,
Oxford University Press, 2016.
13. Story: Substance, Structure, Style, and the Principles of Screenwriting,
Robert McKee, HarperCollins, 1997, pp. 243–248.
Chapter Eight The Inner Character
1. Nicomachean Ethics, Aristotle, book 3, chaps. 1–5, SDE Classics,
2019.
2. Punished by Rewards, Alfie Kohn, Mariner Books, 1999.
3. The Denial of Death, Ernest Becker, Simon and Schuster, 1997.
4. The Stages of Psychosocial Development According to Erik H.
Erikson, Stephanie Scheck, GRIN Verlag GmbH, 2005.
5. Man’s Search for Meaning, Viktor E. Frankl, Beacon Press, 1959.
6. Understanding Civilizations: The Shape of History, James K.
Feibleman, Horizon Press, 1975.
7. The Science of Logic, Georg Hegel, translated by George Di Giovanni,
Cambridge University Press, 2015.
8. As Claudia Koonz notes in The Nazi Conscience (Belknap Press,
2003), death camp commandants suffered sleepless, guilt-ridden nights
when their crematoriums weren’t running on schedule.
9. Thinking, Fast and Slow, Daniel Kahneman, Farrar, Straus and Giroux,
2013; Subliminal: How Your Unconscious Mind Rules Your Behavior,
Leonard Mlodinow, Vintage, 2013; Strangers to Ourselves:
Discovering the Adaptive Unconscious, Timothy D. Wilson, Belknap
Press, 2004.
10. How the Mind Works, Steven Pinker, W. W. Norton, 1997.
11. Jenann Ismael on the nature of choice: “We are shaped by our native
dispositions and endowments, but we do make choices, and our
choices… are expressions of our hopes and dreams, values and
priorities. These are things actively distilled out of a history of
personal experience, and they make us who we are. Freedom is not a
grandiose metaphysical ability to subvene the laws of physics. It is the
day-to-day business of making choices: choosing the country over the
city, children over career, jazz over opera, choosing an occasional lie
over a hurtful truth, hard work over leisure. It is choosing that friend,
this hairstyle, maybe tiramisu over a tight physique, and pleasure over
achievement. It is all of the little formative decisions that when all is
said and done, make our lives our own creations.” (“Fate’s Scales,
Quivering,” Jenann Ismael, TLS, August 9, 2019.)
12. Free Will and Luck, Alfred R. Mele, Oxford University Press, 2008;
Effective Intentions: The Power of Conscious Will, Alfred R. Mele,
Oxford University Press, 2009.
Chapter Nine The Dimensional Character
1. “Not Easy Being Greene: Graham Greene’s Letters,” Michelle Orange,
Nation, May 4, 2009.
2. BBC Culture Series, April 2018.
3. The Odyssey, Homer, translated by Emily Wilson, W. W. Norton,
2018.
Chapter Ten The Complex Character
1. The Power Elite, C. Wright Mills, Oxford University Press, 1956;
Civilization and Its Discontents, Sigmund Freud, W. W. Norton, 2005.
2. “The Financial Psychopath Next Door,” Sherree DeCovny, CFA
Institute Magazine 23, no. 2, March–April 2012.
3. Twilight of the Elites, Christopher Hayes, Random House, 2012.
4. The Self Illusion: How the Social Brain Creates Identity, Bruce Hood,
Oxford University Press, 2012.
5. Games People Play, Eric Berne, Random House, 1964.
6. The Oxford Handbook of the Five Factor Model, Thomas A. Widiger,
Oxford University Press, 2016.
7. Personality, Cognition and Social Interaction, edited by John F.
Kihlstrom and Nancy Cantor, Routledge, 2017; Subliminal: How Your
Unconscious Mind Rules Your Behavior, Leonard Mlodinow, Random
House, 2012.
8. The Private Life, Josh Cohen, Granta, 2013.
9. The Courage to Be, Paul Tillich, Yale University Press, 1952.
10. Dialogue: The Art of Verbal Action for Page, Stage, Screen, Robert
McKee, Hachette Book Group / Twelve, 2016, pp. 45–53.
Chapter Eleven The Completed Character
1. Time in Literature, Hans Meyerhoff, University of California Press,
1955.
2. Upheavals of Thought: The Intelligence of Emotion, Martha C.
Nussbaum, Cambridge University Press, 2003.
Chapter Twelve The Symbolic Character
1. Man and His Symbols, Carl G. Jung, Dell, 1968; Archetype,
Attachment, Analysis: Jungian Psychology and the Emergent Mind,
Jean Knox, Brunner-Routledge, 2003.
2. The Book of Qualities, J. Ruth Gendler, Harper Perennial, 1984.
3. The True Believer: Thoughts on the Nature of Mass Movements, Eric
Hoffer, Harper and Row, 1951.
4. The Origins of Cool in Postwar America, Joel Dinerstein, University
of Chicago Press, 2018.
5. The Politics of Myth: A Study of C. G. Jung, Mircea Eliade, and
Joseph Campbell, Robert Ellwood, State University of New York
Press, 1999.
Chapter Thirteen The Radical Character
1. The Principle of Reason, Martin Heidegger, translated by Reginald
Lilly, Indiana University Press, 1991.
2. Flat Protagonists: A Theory of Novel Character, Marta Figlerowicz,
Oxford University Press, 2017.
3. On Beckett, Alain Badiou, Clinamen Press, 2003.
4. “Beckett, Proust, and ‘Dream of Fair to Middling Women,’” Nicholas
Zurbrugg, Journal of Beckett Studies no. 9, 1984.
5. Civilization and Its Discontents, Sigmund Freud, Verlag, 1930.
Chapter Fifteen Character in Action
1. Childhood and Society, Erik Erikson, W. W. Norton, 1963.
2. Love Is a Story, Robert Sternberg, Oxford University Press, 1998.
Chapter Sixteen Character in Performance
1. Aristotle: The Desire to Understand, Jonathan Lear, Cambridge
University Press, 1988.
2. Language as Symbolic Action, Kenneth Burke, University of
California Press, 1968.
3. “The Myth of Universal Love,” Stephen T. Asma, New York Times,
January 6, 2013.
4. Actual Minds, Possible Worlds, Jerome Bruner, Harvard University
Press, 1986.
5. The Better Angels of Our Nature, Steven Pinker, Penguin, 2015.
6. Gut Reactions: A Perceptual Theory of Emotion, Jesse J. Prinz, Oxford
University Press, 2004.
Part Four Character Relationships
1. The Sociology of Secrecy and of Secret Societies, Georg Simmel,
CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, 2015.
Chapter Seventeen Cast Design
1. The Birth and Death of Meaning: An Interdisciplinary Perspective on
the Problem of Man, Ernest Becker, Free Press, 1971; The Denial of
Death, Ernest Becker, Free Press, 1973.
2. Bloodchild and Other Stories, Octavia E. Butler, Seven Stories Press,
2005.
3. The Shifting Realities of Philip K. Dick: Selected Literary and
Philosophical Writings, Lawrence Sutin, Vintage Books, 1995.