THE GODFATHER Part Two Screenplay by Mario Puzo and Francis Ford Coppola SECOND DRAFT September 24, 1973 FADE IN: The Paramount Pictures logo is presented over a simple black background, as a single trumpet plays the familiar theme of a waltz. White lettering fades in: Mario Puzo's THE GODFATHER There is a pause, as the trumpet concludes, and there is the additional title: - Part Two - INT. DON CORLEONE'S OLD OFFICE - CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL CORLEONE - DAY standing impassively, like a young Prince, recently crowned King. CLOSE VIEW ON Michael's hand. ROCCO LAMPONE kisses his hand. Then it is taken away. We can SEE only the empty desk and chair of Michael's father, Vito Corleone. We HEAR, over this, very faintly a funeral dirge played in the distance, as THE VIEW MOVES SLOWLY CLOSER to the empty desk and chair. DISSOLVE TO: EXT. A SICILIAN LANDSCAPE - FULL VIEW - DAY We can barely make out the funeral procession passing over the burnt-brown of a dry river bed. The figures move slowly, seemingly from out of hundreds of years of the past. The MUSICIANS walking unsteadily on the rocky bed, their instruments harsh and blaring. They are followed by six young peasant men, carrying th e crude wooden coffin on their shoulders. Then the widow, a strong large woman, dressed in black, and not accepting the arms of those walking with her. Behind her, not more than twenty relatives, few children and paisani continue alone behind the coffin. Suddenly, we HEAR the shots of the lupara, and the musicians stop their playing. The entire procession scatters in odd directions along the rocky river bed. The young men struggle with the burden of the heavy coffin, throwing it out of balance and near ly crashing to the ground. We hear a woman SCREAMING: WOMAN (Sicilian) They've killed young Paolo! They've killed the boy Paolo! EXT. SICILIAN LANDSCAPE - MED. VIEW - DAY across the slain body of a fourteen year old boy, lying on the parched ground. In the distance we see four or five of the mourning women, the wind blowing their black dresses and veils, running up to the body of the boy. They begin to wail, and cry out in anguished Sicilian, as the widow, the mother of the murdered boy, holds her child in her arms, his fresh blood wetting her strong hands. EXT. BARONIAL ESTATE - TIGHT MOVING VIEW - DAY A boy, eight or nine, with wide, frightened eyes, being pulled quickly by the hand. This is VITO ANDOLINI, who is to become The Go dfather. The VIEW ALTERS revealing that he is being pulled along by his Mother, the Widow, across a field leading to the ornamental gates of a Baronial Estate of some forgotten Noble. At various positions near the gates are men with shotguns, or lupara. The gates are opened; and the Widow and her boy are shown before DON FRANCESCO, a man in his sixties. He wears his trousers with suspenders, and an open white shirt sloppily tucked in over his enormous belly. He wears a hat to protect him from t he white -hot sun, and proudly displays a gold watch and chain over his vest. He sits in a chair, near a group of his men in the garden, listening to the Widow, who stands before him with her only son. WIDOW (Sicilian) Don Francesco. You murdere d my husband, because he would not bend. And his oldest son Paolo, because he swore revenge. But Vitone is only nine, and dumb -witted. He never speaks. DON FRANCESCO (Sicilian) I'm not afraid of his words. WIDOW (Sicilian) He is weak. DON FRANCESCO (Sicilian) He will grow strong. WIDOW (Sicilian) The child cannot harm you. DON FRANCESCO (Sicilian) He will be a man, and then he will come for revenge. As she pleads, the Widow moves closer to the Don, until she has practically thrown herself to her knees before him. WIDOW (Sicilian) I beg you, Don Francesco, spare my only son. He is all I have. In the name of the Holy Spirit, I swear he will never be a danger to you... Suddenly, she reaches under her skirt, where she has hidden a kitchen knife. WIDOW (continuing) But I will kill you myself! (she lunges at the Mafia chieftain) Vitone, go! The boy runs as fast as he can out through the gates. Then there is a lupara blast. He turns, and sees his Mother flung a distance of five feet from the short range of the terrible blast of the shotgun. Then he sees the men turn their attention to him. One fires at him; but the boy is quick, and di sappears into a grove of olive trees. EXT. STREETS OF CORLEONE - NIGHT Two men roam the deserted streets of Corleone, carrying lupare. Every so often, they stop, and one shouts in a loud, almost singsong voice, like a fish peddler. Their names are MOSC A and STROLLO. MOSCA (Sicilian) Our Friend promises misery to anyone who harbors the boy Vito Andolini. (he turns and shouts in the other direction) Our Friend promises misery to anyone who harbors the boy Vito Andolini. INT. A HOUSE - NIGHT A family quietly eats their dinner. The father is the local policeman, as indicated by his uniform jacket and gun, hanging nearby. STROLLO (Sicilian, O.S.) Our Friend will be hard with any family who gives help to Vito Andolini. One of the children looks up, about to speak. But the father sternly indicates that nothing must be said. They go on with their dinner. EXT. THE STREETS OF CORLEONE - FULL VIEW - NIGHT The men continue walking up and throughout the streets, far in the distance. MOSCA (Sicilian O.S.) ...misery to any family who harbors