PULP FICTION by Quentin Tarantino   Roger Avary PULP [pulp] n. 1. A soft, moist, shapeless mass or matter. 2. A magazine or book containing lurid subject matter and being characteristically printed on rough, unfinished paper. American Heritage Dictionary: New College Edition INT. COFFEE SHOP   MORNING A normal Denny's, Spires-like coffee shop in Los Angeles. It's about 9:00 in the morning. While the place isn't jammed, there's a healthy number of people drinking coffee, munching on bacon and eating eggs. Two of these people are a YOUNG MAN and a YOUNG WOMAN. The Young Man has a slight working-class English accent and, like his fellow countryman, smokes cigarettes like they're going out of style. It is impossible to tell where the Young Woman is from or how old she is; everything she does contradicts something she did. The boy and girl sit in a booth. Their dialogue is to be said in a rapid- pace "HIS GIRL FRIDAY" fashion. YOUNG MAN No, forget it, it's too risky. I'm through doin' that shit. YOUNG WOMAN You always say that, the same thing every time: never again, I'm through, too dangerous. YOUNG MAN I know that's what I always say. I'm always right too, but   YOUNG WOMAN   but you forget about it in a day or two   YOUNG MAN   yeah, well, the days of me forgittin' are over, and the days of me rememberin' have just begun. YOUNG WOMAN When you go on like this, you know what you sound like? YOUNG MAN I sound like a sensible fucking man, is what I sound like. YOUNG WOMAN You sound like a duck. (imitates a duck) Quack, quack, quack, quack, quack, quack, quack... YOUNG MAN Well take heart, 'cause you're never gonna hafta hear it again. Because since I'm never gonna do it again, you're never gonna hafta hear me quack about how I'm never gonna do it again. YOUNG WOMAN After tonight. The boy and girl laugh, their laughter putting a pause in there, back and forth. YOUNG MAN (with a smile) Correct. I got all tonight to quack. A WAITRESS comes by with a pot of coffee. WAITRESS Can I get anybody anymore coffee? YOUNG WOMAN Oh yes, thank you. The Waitress pours the Young Woman's coffee. The Young Man lights up another cigarette. YOUNG MAN I'm doin' fine. The Waitress leaves. The Young Man takes a drag off of his smoke. The Young Woman pours a ton of cream and sugar into her coffee. The Young Man goes right back into it. YOUNG MAN I mean the way it is now, you're takin' the same fuckin' risk as when you rob a bank. You take more of a risk. Banks are easier! Federal banks aren't supposed to stop you anyway, during a robbery. They're insured, why should they care? You don't even need a gun in a federal bank. I heard about this guy, walked into a federal bank with a portable phone, handed the phone to the teller, the guy on the other end of the phone said: "We got this guy's little girl, and if you don't give him all your money, we're gonna kill 'er." YOUNG WOMAN Did it work?