Interstellar written by Jonathan Nolan story by Jonathan Nolan, Kip Thorne, and Lynda Obst March 12 2008 SPACE. But not the dark lonely corner of it we're used to. This is a glittering inferno -- the center of a distant galaxy. Suddenly, something TEARS past at incredible speed: a NEUTRON STAR. It SMASHES headlong through everything it encounters... planets, stars. Can anything stop this juggernaut? Yes. Something looms at the heart of the galaxy, hidden inside the blinding starlight, a dark flaw in the fabric of existence itself: a BLACK HOLE. The neutron star is pulled into the black hole's swirl, spiraling closer and closer to destruction. Finally, it contacts the hole's edge and EXPLODES. The EXPLOSION is so powerful that it sends shock waves into the fabric of space-time itself. We ride one of these waves, racing back out from the black hole. Suddenly, a portion of the wave disappears down a crystal- like hole, emerging in a much darker region of the universe -- a backwater that, as the wave races past a giant red planet with a distinctive eye, we recognize as our own. The wave, now just an infinitesimal ripple, finally reaches our blue planet. It drops into our atmosphere over North America, toward the high desert east of the Cascades, and through the roof of a nondescript warehouse. The wave tickles the atoms in the steel shell of a vacuum chamber, then dances a tiny jig with a laser beam reflected in a heavy piece of glass. The wave shoots back out of the building and disappears in the fractal branches of a tumbleweed resting against a concrete tube that stretches for miles in the desert. An SUV speeds past the tumbleweed and we follow it till it parks at another plain-looking building at the opposite end of the tube. A MAN climbs out of the SUV. INT. CONTROL ROOM, WAREHOUSE -- DAY The man lets himself into a large room that looks like Mission Control. He pours himself a cup of coffee. It is the weekend and the place is empty. No one has been there to see the displays flashing a distinctive shape -- a pulse followed by a series of echoes. The man looks up at the screen, then DROPS his cup of coffee. CUT TO: 2.  INT. LIGO OFFICES, CALTECH, PASADENA -- DAY The Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory headquarters at Caltech is a frenzy of activity. POSTDOCS and RESEARCHERS huddle around monitors and printouts, arguing. ANSEN, 60s, the director of LIGO, walks through the frenzy. A postdoc hands him a printout: a pulse followed by echoes. INT. LIGO DIRECTOR'S OFFICE, CALTECH -- DAY Ansen steps into the relative calm of a large, sunlit office, which overlooks a grassy stretch of Caltech's campus. His ASSISTANT, 30s, is on the phone, on hold. He looks up at Ansen as he enters. ASSISTANT I'm on hold with the INS. (covers microphone) Don't you think we should double check the triangulation before we call anybody- ANSEN We have double checked it. Someone finally picks up the line. ASSISTANT Yes. I'm trying to reach- (pause, listens) No, I don't think you understand how serious this is. (pause) Because if you did, we'd be having this conversation in person. He listens for a moment, then hangs up the phone, confused. ANSEN What did they say? ASSISTANT They said we should look out the window. Ansen steps to the window and looks out: In the courtyard below, coeds are scrambling to get out of the way as a military helicopter sets down in the middle of the quad and dozens of ARMED FEDERAL AGENTS converge on his building. 3. INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM, LIGO, CALTECH -- DAY Ansen sits, alone, on one side of a conference table. The other side is filled with GOVERNMENT MEN -- NSA mostly, some DIA. The door opens and his assistant steps in. Armed guards pat him down, then shove him into a seat. ANSEN Is that really necessary? One of the NSA agents leans forward. NSA AGENT You've been complaining for years that the government doesn't take your project seriously enough, Doctor. (smiles) You can't have it both ways. Ansen motions to his assistant, who turns on a projector. On-screen, we see the familiar pulse and echoes. ANSEN Yesterday morning, our facility in Hanford identified this signal: a neutron star colliding with a supermassive black hole. We went through the last year's data and triangulated the source. The pulse is translated into a crude animatic of a neutron star circling into the black hole. NSA AGENT We know that, Doctor. What we don't know is why, according to your numbers, this event took place right here in our own solar system. Suddenly, the image overlays the sun, the earth, and the rest of our solar system around the black hole. ANSEN It didn't. Because if it had we'd all be dead by now. On-screen, Jupiter, then the Earth and the inner planets are consumed by the black hole. Only the sun survives, pulled into orbit around its new master. ANSEN (CONT'D) Which leaves only one explanation: The signal traveled through a (MORE) 4.  ANSEN (CONT'D) wormhole . A gateway to a distant corner of the universe. The black hole is on the far side. On-screen, the black hole system is removed to a distant corner, connected to ours by a tunnel through space-time. A gravity wave from the collision travels through the tunnel. NSA AGENT I've read your book, Doctor. You said that wormholes are impossible. ANSEN There is nothing quite as satisfying as being proved utterly wrong. (smiles) I said that a wormhole couldn't exist naturally . Not for more than a few billionths of a second. It would have to be... stabilized. NSA AGENT Stabilized by what? Ansen pauses, unsure. His assistant steps in to his defense. ASSISTANT We don't have any way to answer that question. NSA AGENT (ignores him) You're not under peer review here, Doctor. I don't care about your reputation. I need to know how that thing got there. Now. Ansen finally speaks up. ANSEN If you're worried about an invasion, I would start drafting the articles of surrender. (smiles) Whoever they are, if they can build a wormhole, they could erase us in the blink of an eye. Luckily, that also means we have nothing they could be interested in. NSA AGENT Then why is it there?