Praise for Linda Aronson s Scriptwriting Updated (published in the US as Screenwriting Updated)   A lucid and eminently useful atlas of screenwriting technique. All the vague confusing things that teachers and studio executives say about flashback, turning points and multiple protagonists are whipped into coherent shape here, in a comprehensive, precise and extremely practical theory. An essen-tial tool in any writer s kit.   Christopher Vogler, author of The Writer s Journey   A very clear and intelligent analysis of what s going on in film structure and the advances of the last ten years. Terrific handling of Pulp Fiction and flash- back. A genuine advance in the theoretical knowledge of film structure and a very clear coverage of the basics. A big advance on the standard texts. They say you can t teach an old dog new tricks, but I learnt a thing or two.   David Williamson, playwright and film writer   A unique and in-depth screenwriting book that is a MUST for the modern screenwriter. It sits on my desk.  Screenwriters Utopia , US  I really love this book. Her analysis of eight major features, followed by com-mentary of common script problems is worth the price of admission or cover price of this book alone. But the entire 300 pages maintains this level of qual-ity and depth of analysis. Very strongly recommended.  Script Magazine , US  Linda Aronson provides screenwriters with invaluable detailed strategies to lay bare the workings of the craft. She has constructed a remarkable guide to take you from that mind-numbing first blank page, over all the hurdles, through to polishing the final draft.   Jane Scott, Producer ( Mao s Last Dancer, Shine, Crocodile Dundee I and II, Goodbye Paradise)   An illuminating introduction into new forms of film writing that challenges us to keep up with the innovators.  Jamie Sherry, The Screenwriters  Guru Guide , Writers  Guild of Great Britain  There s only one book worth reading on screenwriting structure, by the way: Screenwriting Updated by Linda Aronson. She s published one of the only two credible explications of Pulp Fiction .   Joe Clark  Tired of the Syd Field and Robert McKee dyad? Screenwriter Linda Aronson has a new nuts-and-bolts book that could leave the other gurus searching for day jobs.  Erick Opeka Austin Film Resource, Texas  [Screenwriting Updated] . . . wa s intended as a guide to writing for TV and film, but it s very applicable to the games industry. The focus is on the struc- ture of a story and gives practical strategies for creating or improving your narratives.  Game On , US Linda Aronson First published in 2010 Copyright   Linda Aronson 2010All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retrieval system, without prior permission in writing from the publisher. The Australian Copyright Act 1968 (the Act) allows a maximum of one chapter or 10 per cent of this book, whichever is the greater, to be photocopied by any educational institution for its educational purposes provided that the educational institution (or body that administers it) has given a remuneration notice to Copyright Agency Limited (CAL) under the Act. Allen   Unwin 83 Alexander StreetCrows Nest NSW 2065AustraliaPhone: (6 1 2) 8425 0100 Fax: (6 1 2) 9906 2218 Email: in fo allenandunwin.com Web: ww w.allenandunwin.com Cataloguing-in-Publication details are available from the National Library of Australia www.librariesaustralia.nla.gov.au IS BN 978 1 74237 136 8 Internal design by fisheye designSet in 11 14.5 pt Minion by Post Pre-press Group, AustraliaPrinted in China at Everbest Printing Co 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 vContents List of figures viii List of development strategies x Foreword xii Preface xv Part 1 Getting Ideas 1 Chapter 1 Creativity and general problem solving 3 Chapter 2 Triggering good ideas fast from screen models 15 Chapter 3 Triggering good ideas fast from other models 26 Chapter 4 What film are we in? 31 Part 2 Conventional Narrative Structure 43 Chapter 5 Overview of conventional narrative structure 45 Chapter 6 Planning a conventional, three-act structure 61 Chapter 7 Normality and disturbance (the set-up) 68 Chapter 8 Action line or relationship line? 72 Chapter 9 Protagonists and characters who seem like protagonists but are not 78 Chapter 10 One protagonist, many antagonists 86 Chapter 11 Characterisation 91 Chapter 12 The plan and first-act turning point 99 Chapter 13 The second act 104 Chapter 14 The third act: Climax, resolution, symbolism and myth 113 Chapter 15 Structural analysis of The Piano 120 Part 3 Practical Plotting 127 Chapter 16 The nature of the task 129 Chapter 17 Close plotting: Beats, interweaving and condensing 133 Chapter 18 Plotting: Tips, traps and rewriting 144 Chapter 19 Genres with particular plotting problems 155