CHINATOWN by Robert Towne FULL SCREEN PHOTOGRAPH Grainy but unmistakably a man and woman making love. Photograph shakes. SOUND of a man MOANING in anguish. The photograph is dropped, REVEALING ANOTHER, MORE compromising one. Then another, and another. More moans. CURLY'S VOICE (crying out) Oh, no. INT. GITTES' OFFICE CURLY drops the photos on Gittes' desk. Curly towers over GITTES and sweats heavily through his workman's clothes, his breathing progressively more labored. A drop plunks on Gittes' shiny desk top. Gittes notes it. A fan whiffs overhead. Gittes glances up at it. He looks cool and brisk in a white linen suit despite the heat. Never taking his eyes off Curly, he lights a cigarette using a lighter with a "nail" on his desk. Curly, with another anguished sob, turns and rams his fist into the wall, kicking the wastebasket as he does. He starts to sob again, slides along the wall where his fist has left a noticeable dent and its impact has sent the signed photos of several movie stars askew. Curly slides on into the blinds and sinks to his knees. He is weeping heavily now, and is in such pain that he actually bites into the blinds. Gittes doesn't move from his chair. GITTES All right, enough is enough. You can't eat the Venetian blinds, Curly. I just had 'em installed on Wednesday. Curly responds slowly, rising to his feet, crying. Gittes reaches into his desk and pulls out a shot glass, quickly selects a cheaper bottle of bourbon from several fifths of more expensive whiskeys. Gittes pours a large shot. He shoves the glass across his desk toward Curly. GITTES Down the hatch. Curly stares dumbly at it. Then picks it up, and drains it. He sinks back into the chair opposite Gittes, begins to cry quietly. CURLY (drinking, relaxing a little) She's just no good. GITTES What can I tell you, Kid? You're right. When you're right, you're right, and you're right. CURLY Ain't worth thinking about. Gittes leaves the bottle with Curly. GITTES You're absolutely right, I wouldn't give her another thought. CURLY (pouring himself) You know, you're okay, Mr. Gittes. I know it's your job, but you're okay. GITTES (settling back, breathing a little easier) Thanks, Curly. Call me Jake. CURLY Thanks. You know something, Jake? GITTES What's that, Curly? CURLY I think I'll kill her. INT. DUFFY   WALSH'S OFFICE Noticeably less plush than Gitte's. A well-groomed, dark-haired WOMAN sits nervously between their two desks, fiddling with the veil on her pillbox hat. WOMAN I was hoping Mr. Gittes could see to this personally. WALSH (almost the manner of someone comforting the bereaved) If you'll allow us to complete our preliminary questioning, by then he'll be free. There is the SOUND of ANOTHER MOAN coming from Gittes' Office. Something made of glass shatters. The Woman grows more edgy. INT. GITTES' OFFICE   GITTES   CURLY Gittes and Curly stand in front of the desk, Gittes staring contemptuously at the heavy breathing hulk towering over him. Gittes takes a handkerchief and wipes away the plunk of perspiration on his desk.