JOKER an origin written by Todd Phillips   Scott Silver 13 April 2018 This story takes place in its own universe. It has no connection to any of the DC films that have come before it. We see it as a classic Warner Bros. movie. Gritty, intimate and oddly funny, the characters live in the real world and the stakes are personal. Although it is never mentioned in the film, this story takes place in the past. Let's call it 1981.It's a troubled time. The crime rate in Gotham is at record highs. A garbage strike has crippled the city for the past six weeks. And the divide between the "haves" and the "have-nots" is palpable. Dreams are beyond reach, slipping into delusions. TP SS OVER BLACK: HEAR LAUGHTER. The sound of a man totally cracking up. FADE IN: INT. DEPT. OF HEALTH, OFFICE - MORNING 1 1 CLOSE ON JOKER (30's), tears in his eyes from laughing so hard. He's trying to get it under control. His greasy, black hair is matted down. He's wearing an old, faded red hooded zip-up sweatshirt, a threadbare gray scarf, thin from years of use, hangs loosely around his neck. WE NOTICE T WO FADED OLD SCARS cut at the corners of his mouth. Almost forming a smile.He's sitting across from an overworked SOCIAL WORKER (50's), African American. Her office is cramped and run-down in a cramped and run-down building. Stacks of folders piled high in front of her. She just sits behind her desk, waiting for his laughing fit to end, she's been through this before. Finally it subsides. Joker takes a deep breath, pauses to see if it's over. Beat. JOKER --is it just me, or is it getting crazier out there? Despite the laughter, there's real pain in his eyes. Something broken in him. Looks like he hasn't slept in days. SOCIAL WORKER It's certainly tense. People are upset, they're struggling. Looking for work. The garbage strike seems like it's been going on forever. These are tough times. (then) How 'bout you. How's the job? Still enjoying it? JOKER Yeah, I mean, it's different each day, so I really like that. I don't think I could ever work in an office. Behind a desk. (MORE) (beat) No offense. She smiles. Writes something down. Looks at the clock, she's running late for her next appointment. SOCIAL WORKER Have you been keeping up with your journal? JOKER Everyday. SOCIAL WORKER Great. Did you bring it with you? Beat. JOKER (dodging the subject) I'm sorry. Did I bring what? SOCIAL WORKER (impatient; she doesn't have time for this) Arthur, last time I asked you to bring your journal with you. For these appointments. Do you have it? JOKER Yes ma'am. Beat. SOCIAL WORKER Can I see it? He reluctantly reaches into his bag. Pulls out a weathered notebook. Slides it across to her-- JOKER I've been using it as a journal, but also a joke diary. Funny thoughts or, or observations-- Did I tell you I'm pursuing a career in stand-up comedy? She's half-listening as she flips through his journal. SOCIAL WORKER No. You didn't. JOKER I think I did. JOKER (CONT D) 2. She doesn't respond, keeps flipping through his journal-- SOCIAL WORKER Oh yeah. Because of what your mother said,-- about your purpose. "To bring laughter and joy to the world," right? JOKER Right. ANGLE ON JOURNAL, pages and pages of notes, all in neat, angry-looking handwriting. Also, cut out photos from hardcore pornographic magazines and some crude handmade drawings. A flash of anger crosses Joker's face. We see him picking at his right eyebrow, almost obsessively. Trying to stay calm. His eyebrow is actually half-gone. Something he does a lot. JOKER I didn't realize you wanted to read it. The social worker gives him a look, then reads something in the pages that gives her pause. SOCIAL WORKER (reading out loud) "I just hope my death makes more sense than my life." She looks up at Joker. He just stares back. Lets it hang out there for a beat. Then he laughs a little, even though he doesn't think it's funny-- JOKER Yeah. I mean, that's just-- SOCIAL WORKER Does my reading it upset you? He leans in. JOKER No. I just,-- some of it's personal. You know? SOCIAL WORKER I understand. I just want to make sure you're keeping up with it. She slides his journal back to him. He holds it in his lap.3.