PRAISE FOR SYD F I E L D "[Syd Field is] the most sought-after screenwriting teacher in the world."  Hollywood Reporter "Syd Field is the preeminent analyzer in the study of American screenplays."  JAMES L. B ROOKS , Academy Award-winning writer, director, producer "I based Like Water for Chocolate on what I learned in Syd's books. Before, I always felt structure imprisoned me, but what I learned was structure really freed me to focus on the story."  L AURA ESQUIVEL , writer, Like Water for Chocolate "If I were writing screenplays ... I would carry Syd Field around in my back pocket wherever I went."  S TEVEN BOCHCO , writer producer director, NYPD Blue "Syd Field's book[s] have been the Bible and Talmud for a generation of budding screenwriters."  Salon.com SCREENPLAY: The Foundations of Screenwriting " Screenplay is one of the bibles of the film trade and has launched many a would-be screenwriter on the road to Hollywood."  Library Journal "[Syd Field is the] guru of would-be screenwriters __ Screenplay is their bestselling bible."  Los Angeles Herald Examiner "Full of common sense, an uncommon commodity."  Esquire "Quite simply the only manual to be taken seriously by aspiring screen- writers." T ONY BILL, Academy Award-winning producer, director "Impressive because of its rare combinations: a technical book, appar- ently mechanically sound, that's quite personable and lively and also seems to care about us, about our doing things right and making good. His easy-to-follow, step-by-step approaches are comforting and his em- phasis on right attitude and motivation is uplifting."  Los Angeles Times Book Review "A much-needed book."  F RANK PIERSON , Academy Award-winning screenwriter; president, Writers Guild of America, West "The basics of the craft in terms simp le enough to enable any beginner to develop an idea into a submittable script."  American Cinematographer "A much-needed book... straightforward and informed ... accurate and clear, and should be enormously helpful to novices."  Fade-In "The complete primer, a step-by-step guide from the first glimmer of an idea to marketing the finished script."  New West "Experienced advice on story development, creation and definition of characters, structure of action, and direction of participants. Easy-to- follow guidelines and a commonsense approach mark this highly useful manual."  Video "Great advice for screenwriters. I always tell young writers to pick up Screenplay and read it right away then either embrace it or rebel against it, but it'll certainly get your mind turning in the right ways."  D AVID KOEPP, award-winning writer, director, Spider-Man, Secret Window, War of the Worlds THE SCREENWRITER'S WORKBOOK: Exercises and Step-by-Step Instruction for Creating a Successful Screenplay "One of the standards in the industry." Amazon.com SELLING A SCREENPLAY: The Screenwriter's Guide to Hollywood "A wonderful book that should be in every filmmaker's library."  H OWARD KAZANJIAN , producer, Raiders of the Lost Ark, Return ofthejedi, Demolition Man "An informative, engaging look at the inside of the dream factory. This is a terrific aid for screenwriters who are trying to gain insight into the Hollywood system."  D AVID KIRKPATRICK , producer, former head of Paramount Pictures FOUR SCREENPLAYS: Studies in American Screenplay "A book that writers will stand in line for and studio executives will Xerox."  J AMES L. B ROOKS , Academy Award-winning writer, director, producer "What does it take to write a great script? You'll find the answer here.... This is Field's masterpiece and a required purchase for all film collec- tions."  Library Journal "A first-rate analysis of why good screenplays work: a virtual must for as- piring screenwriters."  L INDA OBST, producer, How to Lose a Guy in Ten Days, Sleepless in Seattle "A fascinating view into the most overlooked process of filmmaking."  M ICHAEL BESMAN , producer, About Schmidt "Theory comes alive with this hands-on approach to what makes four great screenplays tick."  D EBORAH JELIN NEWMYER , producer, executive vice president, Amblin Entertainment "Four Screenplays is not only Syd Field's most instructive book ... it's the most fun to read."  A NNA HAMILTON PHELAN , screenwriter, Girl, Interrupted "One of the very best books I have read on movies or screenplays. Syd writes both with passion and an astute understanding."  H ANS ZIMMER , film composer, Gladiator, The Last Samurai, Thelma   Louise THE SCREENWRITER'S PROBLEM SOLVER: How to Recognize, Identify, and Define Screenwriting Problems "Whatever your problem, screenwriting guru Syd Field can help."  Amazon.com