GLADIATOR by David Franzoni Revisions by John Logan SECOND DRAFT October 22, 1998 FADE IN: EXT. FOREST - DAY Germania. The far reaches of the Roman Empire. Winter 180 A.D. Incongruously enough, the first sound we hear is a beautiful tenor voice. Singing. A boy's voice. CREDITS as we hear the haunting song float through dense forests. We finally come to a rough, muddy road slashing through the forest. On the road a GERMAN PEASANT FATHER is herding along three sickly looking cows. His two SONS are with him. His youngest son sits on one of the cows and sings a soft, plaintive song. They become aware of another sound behind them on the road -- the creak of wood, the slap of metal on leather. The Father immediately leads his cattle and his sons off the road. They stand-still, eyes down: the familiar posture of subjugated peoples throughout history. A wagon train rumbles past them. Three ornate wagons followed by a mounted cohort of fifty heavily-armed PRAETORIAN GUARDS. The young boy dares to glance up at the passing Romans. His eyes burn with hatred. INT. WAGON - DAY Mist momentarily obscures a man's face. Frozen breath. The man is in his 20's, imperious and handsome. He is swathed in fur, only his face exposed. He is COMMODUS. He glances up. COMMODUS Do you think he's really dying? The woman across from him returns his gaze evenly. She is slightly older, beautiful and patrician. A formidable woman. She is LUCILLA. LUCILLA He's been dying for ten years. COMMODUS I think he's really dying this time. A beat. Their breath turns instantly to mist. 2. COMMODUS (cont d ) He has to be bled every night now. LUCILLA How do you know that? COMMODUS I've been so informed. She arches an eyebrow. COMMODUS (cont d ) If he weren't really dying he wouldn't have sent for us. LUCILLA (a smile) Maybe he just misses us. COMMODUS And the Senators. He wouldn't have summoned them if -- LUCILLA Peace, Commodus. After two weeks on the road your incessant scheming is hurting my head. A beat. COMMODUS The first thing I shall do is honor him with games worthy of his majesty. LUCILLA The first thing I shall do is have a hot bath. The wagon rumbles to a halt. Voices are heard outside. Commodus leaps out... EXT. WAGON - OUTPOST - DAY Three Roman SOLDIERS guard an outpost, a watchtower, on the roadside. COMMODUS Why have we stopped? PRAETORIAN GUARD MEMBER We're here, sir. 3. COMMODUS (to Soldier  1) Where is my father? SOLDIER  1 He's at the front, sir. COMMODUS Is the battle won? SOLDIER  1 Don't know, sir. They've been gone for eight days. Commodus tosses off his furs -- beneath them he wears a beautiful set of Lorica Segmentata -- the traditional formed armor of Rome. He moves to a horse as: COMMODUS (to Soldier  1) My sister wants a bath, take her to the camp. (to Soldier  2) Take me to my father. He leaps onto the horse and canters back to the Praetorian Guard unit. Soldier  2 climbs on his horse and leads them. Commodus rides off with most of the Praetorian Guard unit. Lucilla peeks her head from the wagon. She glances at the remaining soldiers. Distinctly unpromising. LUCILLA (dry) Civilization at last. Gods preserve us. EXT. HILL - TWILIGHT The mighty catapults dwarf the humans. Soldiers from the elite Felix Regiment -- a legion of the Roman Army -- haul the monstrous machines up a hill. The commanding General of the Felix Regiment, MAXIMUS, walks between two of the catapults. He is a striking and intense man in his 30's. Like all the soldiers who surround him, he is caked with mud and exhausted. He trudges up the hill with his two lieutenants, TITUS and QUINTUS. 4. TITUS You would do as well to read the mind of a rhinoceros. QUINTUS These barbarians would rather drown in blood than yield an inch. If I didn't hate them so much I would admire them. They have reached the top of the hill. Stunning martial preparations are underway. The catapults join ten others. Archers are taking up position. Brutal "Scorpions" -- devices for firing multiple crossbow bolts -- are being loaded. Soldiers are also loading the catapults with enormous "Greek fire pots" -- large, round terra cotta pots. Maximus and his lieutenants gaze down from the hilltop. Below them they can see a German encampment. TITUS They simply will not surrender. A beat as Maximus gazes down at the German position. MAXIMUS (quietly) A people should know when they are conquered. A beat. MAXIMUS (cont d ) At the first signal release the catapults. We'll use the cavalry to cut off the retreat. QUINTUS General, I don't recommend that. Our cavalry might be caught in the flames. MAXIMUS I hope not, because I'm going to be leading them. A beat as he gazes down at the enemy. MAXIMUS (cont d ) Why don't they know they're already dead?